{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
                                                                         Acta Materialia 256 (2023) 119096\par
\par
\par
                                                                    Contents lists available at ScienceDirect\par
\par
\par
                                                                            Acta Materialia\par
                                                          journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/actamat\par
\par
\par
Full length article\par
\par
Automated extraction of interfacial dislocations and disconnections from\par
atomistic data\par
Nipal Deka a , Alexander Stukowski b , Ryan B. Sills a ,\u8727?\par
a   Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ 08854, USA\par
b\par
    OVITO GmbH, Darmstadt, Germany\par
\par
\par
\par
ARTICLE                 INFO                               ABSTRACT\par
\par
Keywords:                                                  We introduce Interfacial Line Defect Analysis (ILDA), a method for identifying and extracting interfacial\par
Dislocation                                                dislocations and disconnections with little-to-no input from the user on the nature of the interface. By simply\par
Disconnections                                             providing the orientations and coherency strains for the crystals in a coherent reference state of the interface,\par
Molecular dynamics\par
                                                           ILDA provides exact Burgers vectors. Alternatively, these orientations and strains can be estimated using local\par
Interfaces\par
                                                           atomic deformation gradients, making ILDA fully automated and providing estimated Burgers vectors. ILDA\par
                                                           also determines the step height associated with each defect line segment, in case the associated defect is a\par
                                                           disconnection. The heart of the method is the identification of atoms residing at co-incidence sites between\par
                                                           the two crystals and the construction of a surface mesh connecting these sites that is used to compose Burgers\par
                                                           circuits and insert defect line segments. We demonstrate the performance of ILDA in two test cases: a twist\par
                                                           grain boundary and a phase boundary.\par
\par
\par
\par
1. Introduction                                                                                    While it has been well understood for some time that interfacial\par
                                                                                               line defects play important roles in behaviors of materials, a compre-\par
    Line defects such as dislocations and disconnections are a ubiqui-                         hensive understanding of their properties is lacking. Most theories for\par
tous feature of crystalline interfaces [1]. In grain boundaries (GBs),                         interfacial line defects are based on continuum theories [1,9] which\par
line defects may be present to accommodate misorientations from                                lack an accurate description of defect cores. Furthermore, these theories\par
co-incidence site lattice orientations (so-called \u120564? boundaries). Grain                         are unable to accurately characterize phenomena such as dislocation\par
boundary line defects may also form when lattice dislocations im-                              transmission and emission at interfaces because these processes are\par
pinge on GBs, leading to dislocation transmission and/or absorption                            governed by localized nonlinear interatomic interactions [10]. On the\par
events that generate grain boundary dislocations and/or disconnec-                             other hand, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations have provided great\par
tions. These defects are known to affect many phenomena in materi-                             insights into the core-dominated aspects of interfacial line defects,\par
als science, including GB strengthening (e.g., Hall\u8211?Petch strengthen-                          such as line defect reactions in interfaces [11,12], motion of interfaces\par
ing) [2], GB sliding [3], GB diffusion [4], intergranular fracture [5],\par
                                                                                               containing line defects [13,14], and segregation of solutes to inter-\par
and GB phase/complexion transitions [6]. In phase boundaries, line\par
                                                                                               faces [15,16] One major challenge for MD in the context of studying\par
defects may form for similar reasons. However, unlike GBs, the two\par
                                                                                               interfaces is identifying and extracting interfacial line defects. Without\par
crystals forming a coherent phase boundary do not mate-up perfectly;\par
                                                                                               the ability to readily identify interfacial line defects, quantify their\par
the two lattices must be distorted to form the coherent interface. This\par
                                                                                               Burgers vector content and step heights, and extract their positions\par
lattice mismatch leads to strain energy in the crystals which must be\par
                                                                                               within the interface, it is difficult or impossible to unambiguously\par
relaxed by arrays of interfacial line defects in order for the interface to\par
be stable. Finally, in the case of both grain and phase boundaries, there                      analyze MD simulations of interfaces.\par
is accumulating evidence that the primary mechanism of boundary                                    To date, there have been two classes of tools which have been\par
migration is the lateral motion of disconnections [7,8]. Disconnections                        developed for analysis of interfacial line defects in atomistic datasets:\par
are like interfacial dislocations embedded inside of an interfacial step of                    the dislocation extraction algorithm (DXA) which uses Burgers circuits\par
height \u8462? [9]; upon migration of the disconnection across the interface,                        to localize line defects and methods based on computation of the Nye\par
the entire interface translates by a distance \u8462?.                                               tensor [17,18]. Compared to Nye tensor approaches, DXA has the\par
\par
\par
     \u8727? Correspondence to: 607 Taylor Rd, Piscataway, NJ 08854, USA.\par
       E-mail address: ryan.sills@rutgers.edu (R.B. Sills).\par
\par
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2023.119096\par
Received 13 April 2023; Received in revised form 9 June 2023; Accepted 14 June 2023\par
Available online 21 June 2023\par
1359-6454/\u169? 2023 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\par
N. Deka et al.                                                                                                                    Acta Materialia 256 (2023) 119096\par
\par
\par
benefit of unambiguously identifying the position and Burgers vector             structure. Furthermore, only CISs within the interface are required for\par
for each dislocation. DXA was originally developed to extract lattice dis-       the method to work. For example, the entire, three-dimensional co-\par
locations and has seen widespread use since its invention [19,20]. DXA           incidence site lattice (CSL) does not need to be identified. In the case\par
was subsequently extended to the case of interfacial dislocations [21],          studies presented below, we employ the following algorithm to identify\par
but has seen less use for this purpose. One reason for this lack of              CISs:\par
widespread adoption of DXA for interfacial analysis is that the user\par
must fully specify the relaxed atomic structure within the interface.             Step 1. Identify atoms of unknown structure. With the help of the Poly-\par
This relaxed structure is usually not known by the user, and often                        hedral Template Matching (PTM) algorithm [26], identify\par
requires considerable effort to determine. On the other hand, Nye-                        atoms with an unknown (\u8216?\u8216?Other\u8217?\u8217?) structure type. Most\u8212?if\par
tensor-based approaches do not require specification of this relaxed                      not all\u8212?atoms within the interface will have an unknown\par
structure. Recently, Winters et al. applied the Nye tensor methodology                    structure type, because PTM is designed to recognize only\par
to grain boundary dislocations and disconnections [22]. While pow-                        perfectly-coordinated lattice sites. PTM identifies structure\par
erful, this approach has the drawback that the user must specify the                      types by comparing the polyhedron formed by an atom\u8217?s local\par
displacement shift complete lattice for the interface, and the method                     atomic neighborhood to a reference template for each crystal\par
does not unambiguously identify the Burgers vector or line position.                      structure of interest. If the deviation from the closest match-\par
Finally, neither approach is able to detect and quantify the step height                  ing reference template falls below a user-specified maximum\par
of a disconnection.                                                                       root mean square deviation (RMSD), then it is declared to\par
    Our goal here is to develop a methodology for identifying and                         belong to that structure type. Atoms whose RMSD exceeds\par
extracting interfacial line defects which is able to explicitly provide                   the maximum value for all structure types are declared to\par
Burgers vectors and positions in space like DXA, but without requiring                    have unknown structure. Selection of the maximum RMSD\par
a significant amount of input from the user. Below we present a new                       value is thus an important aspect of using PTM and finding\par
approach to this problem that we call Interfacial Line Defect Analysis                    co-incidence sites.\par
(ILDA), which uses Burgers circuits to analyze line defects like DXA but\par
                                                                                  Step 2. Assign atoms to crystals. Using the Grain Segmentation modi-\par
requires little or no input from the user on the nature of the interface.\par
                                                                                          fier in OVITO, assign all atoms to a crystal. The segmentation\par
Additionally, ILDA enables automatic quantification of the step height\par
                                                                                          algorithm finds contiguous groups of atoms having the same\par
\u8462? for disconnections. Below we present the ILDA algorithm and then\par
                                                                                          crystalline structure type and a similar local lattice orien-\par
demonstrate its performance on a pair of test cases: a \u120564?11 twist GB\par
                                                                                          tation, using information previously computed by the PTM\par
and a phase boundary.\par
                                                                                          algorithm. In the case of a single phase polycrystal, each\par
                                                                                          crystallite is a grain, with grain boundaries separating crys-\par
2. Theory\par
                                                                                          tals. The Grain Segmentation modifier works equally well for\par
                                                                                          multiphase systems.\par
    The ILDA algorithm differs from DXA in two key ways: (1) co-\par
incidence sites are used to construct Burgers circuits which cross the            Step 3. Find CIS atoms. Out of the atoms with unknown structure\par
interface and (2) a surface mesh is used to comprehensively explore                       type, identify atoms which are simultaneously polyhedral\par
interfaces for line defects and to insert defect line segments. The                       neighbors to two different crystals, i.e., an unknown atom has\par
result is a tool which can identify interfacial line defects including                    neighbor atoms in both crystals. Here \u8216?\u8216?polyhedral neighbor\par
disconnections without the need to specify the atomic structure within                    atom\u8217?\u8217? means an atom used to construct the polyhedron\par
the interface.                                                                            analyzed by PTM. The resulting set of atoms are by definition\par
    Below we enumerate all of the steps in ILDA, which can be broken                      CIS atoms.\par
into four stages, as shown in Fig. 1. The algorithm is implemented\par
as an open-source Python function using the OVITO Python API [23],               2.2. Stage 2: Construction of Burgers circuits\par
and made available for interactive use in the OVITO Pro applica-\par
tion [24] and integration in standalone Python codes/workflows [25].                  The heart of ILDA is the construction of Burgers circuits using three\par
All simulation graphics below were produced using OVITO Pro.                     different coordinate frames, as shown in Fig. 2. First, a closed pair of\par
                                                                                 half circuits are constructed in the Physical Frame. Each step within\par
2.1. Stage 1: Identification of co-incidence sites                               these circuits is mapped to the Lattice Reference Frames (one for each\par
                                                                                 crystal) corresponding to the perfect crystal structures in the unit cell\par
    One of the challenges in identifying line defects in interfaces is           coordinate systems. This mapping is established by PTM\u8217?s capability to\par
dealing with the disordered atomic structure within the interface when           associate neighbor atoms with corresponding lattice directions. Finally,\par
performing Burgers circuits. DXA overcomes this challenge by requiring           the circuits are mapped from the Lattice Reference Frames to the\par
that the user specify the \u8216?\u8216?perfect\u8217?\u8217? atomic structure of the reference          Coherent Reference Frame (CRF) by rotating and/or stretching the\par
interface (without line defects) so that each circuit step within the in-        crystals. The Coherent Reference Frame is the frame within which\par
terface can be mapped to a \u8216?\u8216?perfect\u8217?\u8217? step within the specified interface       coherency is established between the two crystals. In the case of a\par
structure. Accordingly, Burgers circuits can weave arbitrarily through           grain boundary, the CRF enables definition of both the CSL and the\par
interfaces since the entire interface structure is known. Here, we adopt         displacement shift complete lattice [9]. In the case of a phase boundary,\par
a simpler strategy: we first identify atoms that are located in or near          the CRF enables definition of a coherent dichromatic pattern used in the\par
co-incidence sites (CISs) between the two crystals. By definition, a CIS         topological model for interfacial line defects [27,28].\par
is a lattice site that is common to both crystals. This means that a                  Specification of the CRF is a tremendously important step, because\par
Burgers circuit is able to cross the interface at a CIS without needing          it is within this frame that Burgers vectors are defined. The CRF can be\par
to know anything other than the structure of the crystals on each side.          defined by selecting a pair of deformation gradients, A \u119813? and B \u119813?, which\par
In ILDA, this is accomplished by performing half circuits through each           accomplish the mapping from the Lattice Reference Frames to the CRF.\par
crystal which connect at a pair of CISs. The CISs are thus \u8216?\u8216?glue\u8217?\u8217? which        In ILDA, two options exist for defining A \u119813? and B \u119813?. In cases where the\par
connects half circuits within the two crystals. Unlike DXA, only Burgers         user knows what CRF they want to use, it can be manually specified by\par
circuits which pass through co-incidence sites can be constructed using          inputting the crystal orientations and coherency strains. Consider the\par
this method. The advantage is that CISs can be found in an auto-                 case where crystal A is oriented with crystallographic directions \u119909? A ,\par
mated manner, without requiring any knowledge about the interface                \u119910?A , and \u119911?A pointed along the \u119909?, \u119910?, and \u119911? axes in the CRF, respectively.\par
\par
                                                                             2\par
N. Deka et al.                                                                                                                                   Acta Materialia 256 (2023) 119096\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                           Fig. 1. Workflow for Interfacial Line Defect Analysis (ILDA), showing the four stages of the method. (CIS = co-incidence site).\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 2. Reference frames used by ILDA. In the Physical (simulation) Frame, closed circuits are constructed via a pair of half circuits (one in each crystal). Polyhedral template\par
matching (PTM) then maps these to the Lattice Reference Frame for each crystal. A set of deformation gradients A \u119813? and B \u119813? then map to the Coherent Reference Frame where the\par
Burgers vector is defined. The step height \u8462? is determined in the Physical Frame.\par
\par
\par
Also, the state of strain applied to establish coherency after rotating the                   rather than coherent. This gives rise to spurious Burgers vectors that\par
crystal is A\u120576? \u119888? . The result deformation gradient which maps to the CRF                       must be filtered out. Thus, another user-specified parameter \u119887?tol dictates\par
from the Lattice Reference Frame is                                                           the minimum magnitude that a Burgers vector must have, otherwise it\par
                                                                                              is ignored.\par
A\u119813?   = (\u119816? + A\u120576? \u119888? ) \u8901? A \u119825?                                                           (1)\par
                                                                                                  With the reference frames fully defined, it is possible to construct\par
where A \u119825? = [\u119909?  \u119909?A \u119910? A \u119911? A ]. When the user manually specifies the CRF,                       Burgers circuits in search of closure failures. However, it is unclear how\par
ILDA provides a robust means for identifying exact Burgers vectors,                           these circuits can be performed in a comprehensive manner to ensure\par
even if the physical interface in the simulation experiences a spatially                      that all interfacial line defects are successfully identified. To accomplish\par
varying strain state or set of line defects. If the user does not know                        this, we employ a surface mesh representation of the interface. Specif-\par
a CRF, or if a quick estimate of the Burgers vectors is desired, ILDA                         ically, we construct a triangulated surface mesh whose vertices are CIS\par
can attempt to obtain estimates A \u119813? and B \u119813? by computing the local                            atoms in the interface. This surface mesh spans the whole interface,\par
deformation gradients of the atoms near the interface. Specifically, a                        and provides a set of topological connections between the CIS atoms:\par
user-defined parameter \u119889?F defines the thickness of the layer of atoms                         the edges of the mesh. Thus, by constructing Burgers circuits between\par
near the interface to be used. The atomic deformation gradients are                           every pair of CIS atoms connected by an edge of the mesh, we can\par
computed using the method of Shimizu et al. [29], and then A \u119813? and                            comprehensively explore the interface for line defects.\par
B \u119813? are obtained as the average over all such atoms in each respective                            The following sequence of steps accomplishes the above.\par
crystal. In our experimentation with ILDA, we find that these estimated\par
values of A \u119813? and B \u119813? often yield reasonable estimates of the Burgers                          Step 1. Construct surface mesh. A surface mesh which connects only\par
vectors, with errors of 10% or less. However, it should be noted that                                  CIS atoms is constructed using the so-called alpha-shape\par
since A \u119813? and B \u119813? are approximate, the CRF is likely to be incoherent                                  method in OVITO [30,31]. If any surface mesh elements\par
\par
                                                                                          3\par
N. Deka et al.                                                                                                                           Acta Materialia 256 (2023) 119096\par
\par
\par
            connect to non-CIS atoms, these elements are systematically\par
            \u8216?\u8216?pruned\u8217?\u8217? from the surface mesh by removing non-CIS atoms\par
            from the mesh.\par
\par
  Step 2. Construct closed circuits. For each edge of the surface mesh,\par
          construct a pair of half circuits which start and finish at\par
          the CIS atoms bounding the edge. Each successive atomic\par
          step in the half circuits is identified by choosing the atomic\par
          neighbor which minimizes the distance to the destination\par
          CIS atom. Let the vector connecting two atoms in the circuit\par
          in the Physical Frame be \u120549?\u119909?   \u119909?\u119894? . Since the circuit is closed in\par
                                \u8721?\par
          the Physical Frame, \u119894? \u120549?\u119909?   \u119909?\u119894? = 0 . Each vector in the Physical\par
          Frame is mapped by PTM to a perfect lattice vector \u120549?\u119883?       \u119883? \u119894? in\par
          the Lattice Reference Frame.\par
\par
  Step 3. Map lattice steps to coherent reference frame. Each step in the          Fig. 3. Use of the interface surface mesh to determine disconnection step height at the\par
          Burgers circuit is mapped from the Lattice Reference Frame               edge connecting nodes \u119894? and \u119895?. Gray triangles are associated with the disconnection\par
          by computing the product A \u119813?\u120549?\u119883?    \u119883? \u119894? for steps in crystal A and         (heavy black line). Blue triangles are associated with the upper terrace and green\par
                                                                                   triangles with the lower terrace of the interface, all of which are free of line defects.\par
              \u119883? \u119894? for steps in crystal B.\par
          B \u119813?\u120549?\u119883?                                                                    Darkly colored triangles are used to determine the habit plane normal vector \u119899? and\par
                                                                                   the step height \u8462? using Eqs. (4) and (5). (For interpretation of the references to color\par
  Step 4. Determine Burgers vectors. To determine the Burgers vector for           in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)\par
          each pair of half circuits, we simply sum each of the circuit\par
          step vectors in the CRF and compute the closure failure.\par
          Mathematically this is obtained as\par
                                                                                   2.4. Stage 4: Insertion of line segments\par
              \u8721?            \u8721?\par
          \u119939?=         \u119883?\u119894? +\par
                 A \u119813?\u120549?\u119883?             \u119883?\u119895?\par
                               B \u119813?\u120549?\u119883?                                 (2)\par
                 \u119894?\u8712?\u119860?            \u119895?\u8712?\u119861?                                                    The aim of this last step is to construct a discrete line representation\par
            where the sums are over all circuit steps in the respective            of the interfacial defects identified in the previous stages. In order\par
            crystals.                                                              to systematically and comprehensively insert line segments, we again\par
                                                                                   utilize the surface mesh of the interface.\par
2.3. Stage 3: Determination of step height\par
                                                                                     Step 1. Check conservation of Burgers vector on mesh faces. We loop\par
    To determine step heights in the Physical Frame, we use the in-                          over each face of the surface mesh and first check that Burg-\par
terface plane normal vector \u119899? associated with each Burgers circuit, as                       ers vector conservation is satisfied. Each triangular mesh face\par
shown in Fig. 3.                                                                             can be thought of as a control volume which dislocation lines\par
                                                                                             may \u8216?\u8216?flow into\u8217?\u8217? at its edges. The Burgers vector assigned to\par
  Step 1. Loop over mesh faces. For an edge bounded by vertices \u119894? and                        each edge gives the net Burgers vector content flowing (cross-\par
          \u119895? that has a non-zero Burgers vector (magnitude exceeding                          ing) into that edge. To check Burgers vector conservation, we\par
          \u119887?tol ), loop over all mesh faces connected to vertices \u119894? and \u119895?.                    simply sum all Burgers vectors, being careful to ensure that\par
                                                                                             all line sense vectors point into the mesh face (an arbitrary\par
  Step 2. Compute area vectors for defect-free faces. For each face \u119898?                        convention). If the sum is not close to zero within a user\par
          connected to vertices \u119894? or \u119895? which does not contain any                            specified tolerance \u119887?tol , the mesh face is flagged for the user\par
          line defects (all edges of the face have Burgers vectors with                      as being problematic.\par
          magnitude less than \u119887?tol ), compute the area vector as\par
                                                                                     Step 2. Insert line segments. Since we have already verified that mesh\par
            \u119860? \u119898? = \u119907? \u119894?\u119896? \u215? \u119907? \u119894?\u119897?                                           (3)                  faces properly satisfy Burgers vector conservation, line seg-\par
            where \u119907? \u119894?\u119896? is the vector which points from vertex \u119894? to vertex                    ment insertion is straight-forward. Segments are inserted in\par
            \u119896? and face \u119898? is formed by vertices \u119894?, \u119896?, and \u119897?. Sum these                        one of two ways, as shown in Fig. 4. If all edges have non-zero\par
                                  \u8721?                                                          Burgers vectors, then segments are inserted which connect\par
            area vectors as \u119860? = \u119898? \u119860? \u119898? . We only use defect-free faces\u8212?\par
            shown as faces that are darkly colored in Fig. 3\u8212?for this                        from the center of each edge to the centroid of the triangle.\par
            computation because these faces are assumed to be associated                     If only two edges have non-zero Burgers vectors, a segment\par
            with the \u8216?\u8216?terrace plane\u8217?\u8217? of the interface [28], within which                   is inserted connecting the centers of these edges. Subsequent\par
            coherency is established. In principle, this computation could                   smoothing operations may be applied to remove artificial\par
            be extended to include faces connected to neighbors of ver-                      jagged geometries, as is done in DXA.\par
            tices \u119894? and \u119895? as well in order to get a more representative\par
            sampling of the interface.                                                 To summarize: ILDA uses CIS atoms to construct a surface mesh,\par
                                                                                   which is then utilized to construct a comprehensive set of Burgers\par
  Step 3. Compute average normal vector. Compute the average normal                circuits spanning the interface. Based on a user-specified CRF or an\par
          vector using all area vectors computed in Step 2 as                      estimated CRF, Burgers vectors can then be defined and line segments\par
                   \u119860?                                                               inserted by applying conservation of Burgers vector to each mesh face.\par
            \u119899?=                                                          (4)        The interface structure and/or displacement shift complete lattice does\par
                  \u8214?\u119860?\par
                   \u119860?\u8214?\par
                                                                                   not need to be defined for any of these steps.\par
  Step 4. Determine step height. The step height is straightforwardly\par
          determined for each edge as                                              2.5. Line defect statistics\par
\par
            \u8462? = |\u119899?\u119899? \u8901? \u119907? \u119894?\u119895? |.                                           (5)           Unlike with analysis of bulk line defects where the menu of possible\par
                                                                                   Burgers vectors is known in advance, the set of possible line defects\par
\par
                                                                               4\par
N. Deka et al.                                                                                                                              Acta Materialia 256 (2023) 119096\par
\par
Table 1\par
Simulation and coherent reference frame (CRF) coordinate axes used for the bicrystalline test cases considered here. (GB = grain boundary, NW = Nishiyama\u8211?Wasserman).\par
 Case                 Crystal             Phase             \u119909? sim                      \u119910? sim                   \u119911? sim            \u119909? CRF            \u119910? CRF               \u119911? CRF\par
 \u120564?11 GB               A                   FCC               [146 98 148]               [542 2 536]             [1 3 1]          [3 2 3]           [1 0 1]            [1 3 1]\par
                      B                   FCC               [148 98 146]               [536 2 542]             [1 3 1]          [3 2 3]           [1 0 1]            [1 3 1]\par
 NW                   A                   FCC               [1 1 0]                    [1 1 2]                 [1 1 1]          [1 1 0]           [1 1 2]            [1 1 1]\par
                      B                   BCC               [1 0 0]                    [0 1 1]                 [0 1 1]          [1 0 0]           [0 1 1]            [0 1 1]\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                               Since this is a GB, no coherency strains need to be imposed to achieve\par
                                                                                               coherency in the CRF. The system contained about 430,000 atoms and\par
                                                                                               the interface was approximately 312 \u197? by 345 \u197?. After inserting the\par
                                                                                               crystals, the system was relaxed via energy minimization, annealed at\par
                                                                                               400 K for 24 ps, and then relaxed again via energy minimization for line\par
                                                                                               defect analysis. The Mishin et al. embedded atom method potential for\par
                                                                                               Cu was used [33].\par
                                                                                                   Fig. 5 shows the results. First, Fig. 5(a) shows that the atomic struc-\par
Fig. 4. Cases for line insertion using triangular mesh faces: (left) one segment is\par
                                                                                               ture of the interface is not flat, but instead contains numerous curved\par
inserted because only two edges have non-zero Burgers vectors and (right) three                steps, indicating the possible presence of disconnections. These defects\par
segments are inserted because all three edges have non-zero Burgers vectors. In both           nucleated to accommodate the misorientation from the perfect 180\u9702?\par
cases, Burgers vector conservation is satisfied.                                               twist. Using the CIS identification subroutine, 6011 CIS atoms were\par
                                                                                               identified using a maximum RMSD value of 0.06 \u197?, and these atoms\par
                                                                                               are colored yellow. These CIS atoms form an approximately planar\par
for a given interface is rarely known. This can make it difficult to                           interface in between the stepped defects. Note that only a fraction of\par
assess the output of a line defect analysis code, such as ILDA. To help                        the atoms in the GB were identified as CIS atoms (white atoms in the\par
organize the output, ILDA tries to categorize the observed line defects.                       interface have unknown structure and are not CIS atoms). Fig. 5(b)\par
First, the Burgers vectors are sorted based on the magnitude of the                            shows the surface mesh resulting from these CIS atoms. Fig. 5(c) finally\par
Burgers vector; line defects with Burgers vectors of similar magnitude                         shows the line defect structure identified by ILDA using the user-\par
are grouped together. The \u119887?tol parameter dictates how different two                            specified CRF given in Table 1. Line defects are colored based on their\par
Burgers vector magnitudes have to be for them to be considered distinct                        Burgers ID, each Burgers ID corresponds to a distinct Burgers vector\par
from one another. Each distinct Burgers vector magnitude is assigned a                         magnitude. The Burgers vectors and the average step height \u10216?\u8462?\u10217? for\par
\u8216?\u8216?Burgers ID\u8217?\u8217?. Then, within each Burgers ID, the code sorts the Burgers                       each are given in the table in Fig. 5, which also provides a color legend\par
vectors into \u8216?\u8216?variants\u8217?\u8217?, with each variant corresponding to a Burgers                        for the line defects. We have analyzed the same interface using DXA and\par
vector with a distinct direction. For example, [1 1 0], [1 0 1], and [1 1 0]                   find agreement between ILDA and DXA on both line configurations and\par
would be variants of the same Burgers ID. To determine whether two                             Burgers vectors. Recall that while DXA requires the interfacial atomic\par
Burgers vectors are distinct, the angle between them is computed and                           structure to be specified, ILDA does not.\par
if this angle is larger than a user-specified \u120579?tol parameter then they                             The majority of the line defect network is comprised of \u8216?\u8216?ID 2\u8217?\u8217?\par
are declared separate variants. This analysis is especially useful when                        disconnections with a small step height of 1.09 \u197? (yellow lines). ID 2\par
using an estimated CRF, because Burgers vectors are approximate and                            disconnections have two variants, whose Burgers vectors only differ by\par
uncertain. In other words, Burgers vectors which should be identical                           a single negative sign. When one ID 2 disconnection from each variant\par
are not. ILDA assigns Burgers IDs and variants to each Burgers vector,                         meets, they react to form an ID 3 disconnection with a much smaller\par
and then computes the average and standard deviation (weighted by                              Burgers vector and larger step height (red lines). However, this reaction\par
the segment lengths) for each component of each Burgers vector within                          does not seem to be very stable, because we see many locations where\par
the same Burgers ID and variant. These values are outputted at the end                         the structure stays disassociated as two yellow ID 2 lines rather than\par
of the analysis. Judicious choice of \u119887?tol and \u120579?tol can lead to a reasonable                    combining together into one red ID 3 line. At the bottom of the figure,\par
understanding of the line defect content in an interface, even with the                        we also see ID 1 disconnections (green lines) with a large step height\par
uncertainty introduced by an estimated CRF.                                                    of 5.71 \u197?. These form when five or six ID 2 disconnections combine\par
                                                                                               together, and three distinct variants are observed.\par
3. Results                                                                                         In the table in Fig. 5, we also list the average Burgers vectors\par
                                                                                               and associated standard deviations obtained using the estimated CRF\par
   We demonstrate ILDA\u8217?s functionality on two different test cases: one                        computed with \u119889?F = 5 \u197?, \u119887?tol = 0.5 \u197?, and \u120579?tol = 10\u9702? . Approximately\par
GB and one biphase interface. Both cases consider a planar interface be-                       18,700 atoms from each crystal were used to approximate A \u119813? and B \u119813?.\par
tween two periodic crystals. The crystal orientations used to construct                        We can see that the Burgers vectors obtained using the estimated CRF\par
the atomistic systems are given in Table 1 (the \u8216?sim\u8217? vectors). In this                        are generally accurate to within 0.1 \u197? and the standard deviations are\par
table, we also give the crystal orientations used to specify the CRF.                          all less than 0.04 \u197?. These estimated Burgers vectors were obtained\par
Simulations were performed using LAMMPS [32]. The run-time for the                             with no user input on the geometry of the problem or the nature of\par
Python implementation of ILDA in OVITO was on the order of 5 min                               the interface.\par
on a laptop computer for these interfaces containing \u8764?104 CIS atoms.\par
                                                                                               3.2. Nishiyama\u8211?Wasserman interface\par
3.1. \u120564?11 Twist GB\par
                                                                                                  Next we consider a biphase interface using the Zhou et al. em-\par
    A GB vicinal to the \u120564?11(131) 180\u9702? pure twist boundary with face-                           bedded atom method potential for Fe [34], examining an FCC crystal\par
centered cubic (FCC) crystals was considered. Crystals were inserted                           coherently bonded to a body-centered cubic (BCC) crystal. The two\par
in a non-orthogonal simulation cell resulting in a 179.29\u9702? twist about                         crystals satisfy the Nishiyama\u8211?Wasserman (NW) orientation relation,\par
the (131) axis between the top and bottom crystals. The CRF for this                                                                                            \u772? FCC \u8741?\par
                                                                                               with (111)FCC \u8741? (110)BCC for the interface plane normal, and [110]\par
interface corresponds to the grain orientations for the perfect \u120564?11 GB.                         \u772?                \u772?         \u772?\par
                                                                                               [100]BCC and [112]FCC \u8741? [011]BCC in the plane of the interface; this set of\par
\par
                                                                                         5\par
N. Deka et al.                                                                                                                                    Acta Materialia 256 (2023) 119096\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 5. Line defect analysis for a GB vicinal to a \u120564?11 twist GB. (a) Atomic view with FCC atoms from the top grain removed. Yellow atoms are CIS atoms. Inset shows zoom\par
of the interface. (b) Surface mesh used by ILDA. (c) Line defects extracted by ILDA. The table gives information on the 3 distinct interfacial line defects and their variants using\par
exact and estimated coherent reference frames (CRFs). (CIS = co-incidence site). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the\par
web version of this article.)\par
\par
\par
crystallographic relationships also defines the CRF for the interface. The                   Ma and Pond [28]. Note that while this choice is arbitrary, a \u8216?\u8216?correct\u8217?\u8217?\par
NW orientation relation has been observed experimentally for marten-                         CRF does exist such that the long-range stress fields of the interface\par
sitic interfaces in steels [35]. Since this is a biphase interface, coherency                are zero when the line defects at the interface satisfy the Frank\u8211?Bilby\par
strains are necessary to achieve coherency in the CRF; specifically, for                     equation [36]. Determination of the \u8216?\u8216?correct\u8217?\u8217? CRF requires solution of\par
lattice parameters \u119886?FCC = 3.58 \u197?, \u119886?BCC = 2.87 \u197? and an interface                             an elasticity problem [36], which is beyond the scope of this paper.\par
plane orthogonal to the \u119911?-axis, the following set of coherency strains                       However, once the Burgers vectors are determined in any CRF, they can\par
are specified:\par
                                                                                             be easily mapped to a different CRF by simply applying a deformation\par
        \u9121?0.0669       0         0\u9124?             \u9121?\u8722?0.0590         0       0\u9124?                   gradient. Consider the following example. Let \u119939? be a Burgers vector\par
A\u120576? \u119888?   =\u9122? 0        \u8722?0.0372      0\u9125? ,   B\u120576? \u119888?   =\u9122? 0           0.0401     0\u9125?                   obtained in the exact CRF given above, where coherency strains are\par
        \u9122?                        \u9125?             \u9122?                         \u9125?\par
        \u9123? 0           0         0\u9126?             \u9123? 0              0       0\u9126?                   equally partitioned between crystals A and B. According to Eq. (2), this\par
where crystal A is the FCC crystal and crystal B is the BCC crystal.                         Burgers vector can be expressed in a new CRF where all coherency\par
This set of coherency strains results in a CRF that is halfway between                       strain has been applied to crystal B as \u119939?\u8242? = (\u119816? + A\u120576? \u119888? )\u8722?1 \u8901? \u119939?, which\par
the unstrained FCC and BCC crystals (e.g., the lattice spacings in the                       effectively \u8216?\u8216?removes\u8217?\u8217? the coherency strain from crystal A and instead\par
interface are the average of the FCC and BCC spacings), as used by                           applies it to crystal B.\par
\par
                                                                                         6\par
N. Deka et al.                                                                                                                                    Acta Materialia 256 (2023) 119096\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 6. Line defect analysis for Shockley\u8211?Read partial dislocations impinging on an FCC-BCC NW interface. (a) Atomic view with FCC atoms removed. Yellow atoms are CIS atoms.\par
Inset shows zoom of the interface. (b) Surface mesh used by ILDA. (c) Line defects extracted by ILDA and DXA. The table gives information on the 4 distinct interfacial line defects\par
identified by ILDA. (SF = stacking fault, CIS = co-incidence site, NW = Nishiyama\u8211?Wasserman). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is\par
referred to the web version of this article.)\par
\par
\par
    The biphase system contains about 3 million atoms and is con-                            Looking to the bottom right of the figure, we see that the Type 1\par
structed to form a 220 \u197? by 270 \u197? interface, which is relaxed with a                         disconnection is able to emit another Type 4 disconnection, forming\par
zero-pressure NPT ensemble at 5 K. A set of three glide dislocation                          a new Type 2 (yellow) disconnection with a much larger step height of\par
loops of dimensions 60 \u197? by 100 \u197? are also introduced into the FCC                           about 4 \u197?.\par
crystal by carefully removing parallelepipedal regions of atoms. During\par
relaxation, these dislocation loops bowout and impinge on the inter-                             The Burgers vector statistics obtained using the estimated CRF with\par
face, stimulating the nucleation of stepped defects in the interface, as                     \u119889?F = 5 \u197?, \u119887?tol = 0.25 \u197?, and \u120579?tol = 10\u9702? are also given in the table\par
shown in Fig. 6(a). In this figure, the 12,730 identified CIS atoms, as                      in Fig. 6. Approximately 26,000 atoms were used from each crystal\par
obtained using a maximum RMSD value of 0.05 \u197?, are shown as yellow.                          to compute the estimated values of A \u119813? and B \u119813?. When it comes to\par
All atoms in the interface are CIS atoms for this test case. Fig. 6(b)                       estimating the CRF from the interface in the simulation, this test case is\par
shows the surface mesh which spans these CIS atoms. In order to fully\par
                                                                                             more challenging since the FCC crystal contains numerous line defects\par
assess the line defects in this simulation, we utilize DXA to analyze\par
                                                                                             which are impinging on the interface, whereas no such defects were\par
the bulk dislocations and ILDA to analyze the interfacial line defects.\par
Fig. 6(c) shows the line defect structure identified by DXA and ILDA                         present in the \u120564?11 GB case. Compared to the twist GB example, these\par
using the user-specified CRF given in Table 1. Four distinct interfacial                     estimated Burgers vectors differ more significantly from their exact CRF\par
line defects are identified, which are listed in the table in Fig. 6, each                   counterparts. These differences are a result of the different rotation ma-\par
only has one variant. This analysis clearly reveals that the impingement                     trices and coherency strain tensors which define the estimated CRF. To\par
on the interface by a Shockley\u8211?Read partial dislocation (colored green)                      better understand this, we employ polar decomposition to decompose\par
leads to disassociation into a pair of disconnections, one with ID 3                         the estimated deformation gradients into their corresponding rotations\par
(colored light blue) and one with ID 4 (colored dark blue). The ID 4\par
                                                                                             \u119825? and stretches \u119829? = \u119816? + \u120576? \u119888? , such that \u119813? = \u119829? \u8901? \u119825? [37]. The estimated\par
disconnection appears to be glissile and begins gliding away from the\par
                                                                                             deformation gradients for this test case are:\par
original intersection area, whereas the ID 3 disconnection appear to\par
be immobile. After a second Shockley\u8211?Read dislocation hits the same                                \u9121?0.075      0.006      \u8722?0.753\u9124?            \u9121?0.943      \u8722?0.001        0 \u9124?\par
region on the interface, a Type 1 disconnection (red line) is formed.                        A\u119813?\par
                                                                                               \u771? = \u9122?0.410      0.764      0.423 \u9125? ,      \u771? = \u9122?0.001\par
                                                                                                                                        B\u119813?                0.741      0.723\u9125? .\par
Type 1, 3, and 4 disconnections all have step heights around 2 \u197?.                                  \u9122?                             \u9125?           \u9122?                            \u9125?\par
                                                                                                   \u9123?0.580     \u8722?0.580       0.577 \u9126?           \u9123? 0         \u8722?0.711      0.711\u9126?\par
\par
                                                                                         7\par
N. Deka et al.                                                                                                                  Acta Materialia 256 (2023) 119096\par
\par
\par
The polar decomposition of these deformation gradients gives the                   bicrystals could be valuable to the study of interfaces beyond the search\par
following estimated coherency strain tensors:                                      for line defects.\par
                                                                                       It is worth reiterating the differences between ILDA and DXA. Both\par
          \u9121? 0.062   \u8722?0.005     0 \u9124?                \u9121?\u8722?0.057   0.001     0 \u9124?\par
                                                                                   approaches use Burgers circuits to identify line defects. The major\par
A\u120576?\u771? \u119888?   = \u9122?\u8722?0.005   \u8722?0.035   0.020\u9125? ,   B\u120576?\u771? \u119888?   = \u9122? 0.001   0.036   0.006\u9125? .\par
          \u9122?                       \u9125?               \u9122?                      \u9125?         differences are: (1) how interfaces are handled during Burgers circuit\par
          \u9123? 0        0.020   0.003\u9126?               \u9123? 0       0.006   0.006\u9126?\par
                                                                                   construction and (2) how line segments are inserted.\par
Comparing these estimated coherency strains with the exact ones                        Regarding (1), in DXA interfaces are treated exactly the same as\par
above, we see several differences. First, several spurious shear strain            bulk crystalline regions. A \u8216?\u8216?perfect\u8217?\u8217? atomic structure is identified for\par
components with magnitudes on the order of 0.01 appear in the                      bulk and interface regions via a repeating atomic motif. Accordingly,\par
estimated strain tensors. And second, the coherency strain magnitudes              any atomic jump inside of an interface could be used in constructing\par
in the estimated tensors are uniformly smaller than those of the exact             Burgers circuits. In contrast, ILDA treats interfaces fundamentally dif-\par
tensors (e.g., 0.062 compared with 0.0669). Both of these effects give             ferently than bulk regions. Only the CIS atoms within an interface are\par
rise to a slightly incoherent interface in the estimated CRF, and cause            used to construct Burgers circuits, other interface atoms are ignored.\par
the Burgers vectors to differ from the exact CRF.                                  As a result, ILDA will not be able to locate line positions within the\par
                                                                                   interface as precisely as DXA, but also does not require the specification\par
4. Discussion                                                                      of a structural motif for the interface.\par
                                                                                       Regarding (2), in DXA line segments are inserted by sweeping a\par
    The major benefit of ILDA compared to DXA is that little, or no,               single Burgers circuit which is known to have a closure failure along the\par
information about the nature of the interface is necessary to use it. In           manifold surrounding regions containing atoms of unknown structure\par
the case where a user knows the CRF for the interface\u8212?for example                  type. In ILDA, line defects are inserted by applying conservation of\par
when a manually constructed planar interface is being studied (as in               Burgers vector to each face of the interfacial surface mesh individually\par
our test cases)\u8212?then the user simply needs to specify the known crystal            (see Fig. 4). Unfortunately this difference in line insertion means that\par
orientations and coherency strains that define the CRF. The line defects           the line defects extracted by ILDA and DXA cannot presently be tied\par
that are extracted in this case are precisely defined with respect to that         together at their intersections points; additional research is necessary\par
CRF. This scenario applies to many previous works, such as the large               to properly couple them together. Such a unified algorithm may be\par
body of research focused on GB mobility, energy, and GB interactions               enabled by a future reformulation of DXA based on a 3D Delaunay\par
with bulk line defects [38], and the large but more modest body of                 tessellation in which short dislocation segments are constructed in each\par
work on planar biphase interfaces. In the case where a user does not               tetrahedral element [39]. Another point to make is that, in principle,\par
know the CRF, the estimated CRF allows an initial analysis without                 the ILDA approach should be more amenable to parallelization than\par
having to specify anything about the interface. Of course the results              DXA, since all Burgers circuit construction and line insertion events\par
using an estimated CRF are only approximate, and some fine-tuning                  are independent of each other. An additional benefit of the interfacial\par
may be required to determine the appropriate values of \u119889?F , \u119887?tol , and             surface mesh approach of ILDA is the ability to extract the step height\par
\u120579?tol which provide useful results. Furthermore, the user may be able to            of a disconnection, which is not currently possible in DXA.\par
use the estimated CRF to help determine the true CRF using the polar                   Interestingly, the notion of a CRF as used in ILDA is quite similar\par
decomposition, as shown in Section 3.2. ILDA automatically performs                to the reference frames and transformation matrices used in DXA to\par
this polar decomposition for the user and reports the results. We believe          construct Burgers circuits that span interfaces. The only substantive\par
that the ability to approximately identify interfacial defects without any         difference is that in ILDA mismatched interfaces with coherency strains\par
user input is a major advancement for the MD community.                            are allowed. We note that DXA is quite more general than ILDA in terms\par
    There is, of course, a strong requirement before ILDA can be used: it          of being able to construct Burgers circuits which span disparate atomic\par
must be possible to locate CIS atoms within the interface. If CIS atoms            structures. For example, in DXA a Burgers circuit could be constructed\par
cannot be located, the method is unable to find line defects. In the cases         around a GB triple point, which requires crossing three separate inter-\par
presented above, there was a dense set of CIS atoms which made it                  faces. As introduced above, ILDA cannot identify line defects at triple\par
possible to extract line defects with high spatial resolution (close to the        points. Perhaps ILDA and DXA could be further combined by coupling\par
atomic spacing). However, if the interface is more heavily disordered,             the transformation matrices concept from DXA with ILDA\u8217?s use of CIS\par
ILDA may fail to identify CIS atoms. This may be because: (1) CIS atoms            atoms and an interfacial surface mesh.\par
do not exist for the interface (e.g., a general GB), (2) the interface is              A final, and rather subtle difference between ILDA and DXA is in\par
too disordered to identify CIS atoms, or (3) CISs exist but atoms do               the nature of the reference state(s) used to define the Burgers vector.\par
not reside at them. In case (1), there is no way to define interfacial             In DXA, the reference state used for Burgers circuit construction is\par
defects anyway, so the problem is moot. In case (2), the disorder may              obtained via energy minimization of the interfacial structure. In other\par
be due to elevated temperature, in which case quenching the system                 words, the atomic jumps within the interface correspond to the atomic\par
or minimizing the energy may reveal the CIS atoms. Or, the disorder                positions in the true, relaxed interface structure. On the other hand,\par
may simply be a property of the interface. For example, some GBs may               ILDA only uses CISs within the interface which are defined in the\par
have a structure which is several atomic planes thick. CIS atoms may be            unrelaxed state. This is akin to how a CSL is defined as a theoretical\par
difficult to identify in such interfaces. In case (3), the ILDA algorithm          lattice based on abutting two perfect crystals together. The atoms in\par
would need to be extended in order to account for the possibility of               a real interface which derives from the co-incidence site lattice may\par
\u8216?\u8216?virtual\u8217?\u8217? CISs, e.g., CISs where no atoms reside; this is possible in            displace away from their theoretical positions during relaxation.\par
principle, but additional research is necessary. Beyond these scenarios,\par
there may be cases where CIS atoms can be located, but they are spaced             5. Conclusions\par
so far apart from each other that it is not possible to locate line defects\par
with high spatial resolution. Of course the defect content identified by               We have presented a new methodology for identifying and extract-\par
ILDA will still be valid, it is just that each line segment inserted by            ing interfacial line defects, including dislocations and disconnections,\par
ILDA may be a composite from many different line defects that exist in             which requires little or no user input on the nature of the interface.\par
between the CIS atoms. Finally, we argue that identification of CISs is a          This method, which we have called ILDA, is similar to DXA in its\par
valuable capability by itself, since so much of interfacial structure and          performance, but unlike DXA relies on the ability to find CIS atoms\par
properties are related to the co-incidence site lattice of an interface. The       in the interface. We apply the approach to two test cases: a pure twist\par
ability to automatically identify and analyze these sites for arbitrary            GB vicinal to a \u120564? boundary and an FCC-BCC interface. In both cases\par
\par
                                                                               8\par
N. Deka et al.                                                                                                                                     Acta Materialia 256 (2023) 119096\par
\par
\par
ILDA was able to reveal in detail what line defects were present in                           [15] C. Hu, D.L. Medlin, R. Dingreville, Disconnection-mediated transition in seg-\par
the interface, both in terms of their Burgers vectors and their step                               regation structures at twin boundaries, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 12 (29) (2021)\par
                                                                                                   6875\u8211?6882.\par
heights. Notably, by using the atoms near the interface to estimate\par
                                                                                              [16] C. Hu, S. Berbenni, D.L. Medlin, R. Dingreville, Discontinuous segregation\par
the CRF, accurate estimates of the Burgers vectors could be obtained                               patterning across disconnections, Acta Mater. 246 (2023) 118724.\par
without specifying anything about the interface. In the future, we hope                       [17] C. Hartley, Y. Mishin, Characterization and visualization of the lattice misfit\par
to improve the coupling between ILDA and DXA to lead to a unified                                  associated with dislocation cores, Acta Mater. 53 (5) (2005) 1313\u8211?1321.\par
methodology for line defect analysis which is easy to use and efficient                       [18] C.S. Hartley, Y. Mishin, Representation of dislocation cores using Nye tensor\par
                                                                                                   distributions, Mater. Sci. Eng. A 400\u8211?401 (2005) 18\u8211?21.\par
for high-performance computing.                                                               [19] A. Stukowski, K. Albe, Extracting dislocations and non-dislocation crystal defects\par
                                                                                                   from atomistic simulation data, Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 18 (8) (2010)\par
Declaration of competing interest                                                                  085001.\par
                                                                                              [20] A. Stukowski, Dislocation analysis tool for atomistic simulations, in: W. Andreoni,\par
                                                                                                   S. Yip (Eds.), Handbook of Materials Modeling, Springer International Publishing,\par
    The authors declare that they have no known competing finan-\par
                                                                                                   Cham, 2020, pp. 1545\u8211?1558.\par
cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to                          [21] A. Stukowski, V.V. Bulatov, A. Arsenlis, Automated identification and indexing\par
influence the work reported in this paper.                                                         of dislocations in crystal interfaces, Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 20 (8)\par
                                                                                                   (2012) 085007.\par
Acknowledgments                                                                               [22] I. Winter, T. Oppelstrup, T. Frolov, R. Rudd, Characterization and visualization\par
                                                                                                   of grain boundary disconnections, Acta Mater. 237 (2022) 118067.\par
                                                                                              [23] OVITO Python API. http://docs.ovito.org/python/.\par
    This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office                          [24] A. Stukowski, Visualization and analysis of atomistic simulation data with OVITO\par
of Science, Basic Energy Sciences, under Award # DE-SC0022154 (N.D.                                \u8211? the open visualization tool, Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 18 (1) (2010)\par
and R.B.S.).                                                                                       015012.\par
                                                                                              [25] ILDA source code. Source code available for download. https://mmod.rutgers.\par
                                                                                                   edu/index.php/codes/.\par
References                                                                                    [26] P.M. Larsen, S. Schmidt, J. Schi\u248?tz, Robust structural identification via polyhedral\par
                                                                                                   template matching, Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 24 (5) (2016) 055007.\par
 [1] A.P. Sutton, R.W. Balluffi, Interfaces in Crystalline Materials, in: Monographs          [27] J. Hirth, R. Pond, Steps, dislocations and disconnections as interface defects\par
     on the Physics and Chemistry of Materials, no. 51, Clarendon Press; Oxford                    relating to structure and phase transformations, Acta Mater. 44 (12) (1996)\par
     University Press, Oxford: New York, 1995.                                                     4749\u8211?4763.\par
 [2] Z.C. Cordero, B.E. Knight, C.A. Schuh, Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect \u8211? a          [28] X. Ma, R. Pond, Parent\u8211?Martensite interface structure in ferrous systems, J. Nucl.\par
     survey of grain-size strengthening studies on pure metals, Int. Mater. Rev. 61                Mater. 361 (2\u8211?3) (2007) 313\u8211?321.\par
     (8) (2016) 495\u8211?512.                                                                      [29] F. Shimizu, S. Ogata, J. Li, Theory of shear banding in metallic glasses and\par
 [3] J. Monk, B. Hyde, D. Farkas, The role of partial grain boundary dislocations in               molecular dynamics calculations, Mater. Trans. 48 (11) (2007) 2923\u8211?2927.\par
     grain boundary sliding and coupled grain boundary motion, J. Mater. Sci. 41              [30] H. Edelsbrunner, E.P. M\u252?cke, Three-dimensional alpha shapes, ACM Trans.\par
     (23) (2006) 7741\u8211?7746.                                                                        Graph. 13 (1) (1994) 43\u8211?72.\par
 [4] A. Oudriss, J. Creus, J. Bouhattate, C. Savall, B. Peraudeau, X. Feaugas, The            [31] A. Stukowski, Computational analysis methods in atomistic modeling of crystals,\par
     diffusion and trapping of hydrogen along the grain boundaries in polycrystalline              JOM 66 (3) (2014) 399\u8211?407.\par
     nickel, Scr. Mater. 66 (1) (2012) 37\u8211?40.                                                 [32] A.P. Thompson, H.M. Aktulga, R. Berger, D.S. Bolintineanu, W.M. Brown, P.S.\par
 [5] Z. Pan, T.J. Rupert, Damage nucleation from repeated dislocation absorption at                Crozier, P.J. in \u8217?t Veld, A. Kohlmeyer, S.G. Moore, T.D. Nguyen, R. Shan, M.J.\par
     a grain boundary, Comput. Mater. Sci. 93 (2014) 206\u8211?209.                                      Stevens, J. Tranchida, C. Trott, S.J. Plimpton, LAMMPS - a flexible simulation\par
 [6] T. Meiners, T. Frolov, R.E. Rudd, G. Dehm, C.H. Liebscher, Observations of                    tool for particle-based materials modeling at the atomic, meso, and continuum\par
     grain-boundary phase transformations in an elemental metal, Nature 579 (7799)                 scales, Comput. Phys. Comm. 271 (2022) 108171.\par
     (2020) 375\u8211?378.                                                                          [33] Y. Mishin, M.J. Mehl, D.A. Papaconstantopoulos, A.F. Voter, J.D. Kress, Struc-\par
 [7] J. Howe, R. Pond, J. Hirth, The role of disconnections in phase transformations,              tural stability and lattice defects in copper: Ab Initio , tight-binding, and\par
     Prog. Mater. Sci. 54 (6) (2009) 792\u8211?838.                                                      embedded-atom calculations, Phys. Rev. B 63 (22) (2001) 224106.\par
 [8] J. Han, S.L. Thomas, D.J. Srolovitz, Grain-boundary kinetics: A unified approach,        [34] X.W. Zhou, M.E. Foster, R.B. Sills, An Fe-Ni-Cr embedded atom method potential\par
     Prog. Mater. Sci. 98 (2018) 386\u8211?476.                                                          for austenitic and ferritic systems, J. Comput. Chem. 39 (29) (2018) 2420\u8211?2431.\par
 [9] W. Cai, W.D. Nix, Imperfections in Crystalline Solids, Cambridge University Press,       [35] H. Kitahara, R. Ueji, M. Ueda, N. Tsuji, Y. Minamino, Crystallographic analysis\par
     Cambridge, 2016.                                                                              of plate martensite in Fe\u8211?28.5 at.% Ni by FE-SEM/EBSD, Mater. Charact. 54\par
[10] D.E. Spearot, M.D. Sangid, Insights on slip transmission at grain boundaries from             (4\u8211?5) (2005) 378\u8211?386.\par
     atomistic simulations, Curr. Opin. Solid State Mater. Sci. 18 (4) (2014) 188\u8211?195.        [36] N. Abdolrahim, M. Demkowicz, Determining coherent reference states of general\par
[11] S. Shao, J. Wang, A. Misra, R.G. Hoagland, Spiral patterns of dislocations at                 semicoherent interfaces, Comput. Mater. Sci. 118 (2016) 297\u8211?308.\par
     nodes in (111) semi-coherent FCC interfaces, Sci. Rep. 3 (1) (2013) 2448.                [37] A. Hoger, D.E. Carlson, Determination of the stretch and rotation in the polar\par
[12] A. Vattr\u233?, N. Abdolrahim, S. Navale, M. Demkowicz, The relaxed structure                      decomposition of the deformation gradient, Quart. Appl. Math. 42 (1) (1984)\par
     of intrinsic dislocation networks in semicoherent interfaces: Predictions from                113\u8211?117.\par
     anisotropic elasticity theory and comparison with atomistic simulations, Extreme         [38] Y. Mishin, M. Asta, J. Li, Atomistic modeling of interfaces and their impact on\par
     Mech. Lett. 28 (2019) 50\u8211?57.                                                                  microstructure and properties, Acta Mater. 58 (4) (2010) 1117\u8211?1151.\par
[13] H. Khater, A. Serra, R. Pond, J. Hirth, The disconnection mechanism of coupled           [39] A. Stukowski, A triangulation-based method to identify dislocations in atomistic\par
     migration and shear at grain boundaries, Acta Mater. 60 (5) (2012) 2007\u8211?2020.                 models, J. Mech. Phys. Solids 70 (2014) 314\u8211?319.\par
[14] Y. Deng, C. Deng, Size and rate dependent grain boundary motion mediated by\par
     disconnection nucleation, Acta Mater. 131 (2017) 400\u8211?409.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                          9\par

}