{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
                                                                        Scripta Materialia 211 (2022) 114503\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                   Contents lists available at ScienceDirect\par
\par
\par
                                                                        Scripta Materialia\par
                                                            journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/scriptamat\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Signi\u64257?cant Bauschinger effect and back stress strengthening in an\par
ultra\u64257?ne grained pure aluminum fabricated by severe plastic\par
deformation process\par
Si Gao a,\u8727?, Kota Yoshino a, Daisuke Terada b, Yoshihisa Kaneko c, Nobuhiro Tsuji a,d\par
a\par
  Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Kyoto University, Yoshida Honmachi, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan\par
b\par
  Department of Mechanical Science and Engineering, Chiba Institute of Technology, Japan\par
c\par
  Department of Mechanical Engineering, Osaka City University, Osaka, Japan\par
d\par
  Elements Strategy Initiative for Structural Materials (ESISM), Kyoto University, Japan\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
a r t i c l e             i n f o                            a b s t r a c t\par
\par
Article history:                                             Bauschinger test in uniaxial tension-compression mode was carried out for the \u64257?rst time on the pure Al\par
Received 16 September 2021                                   specimens having homogeneous ultra-\u64257?ne grained (UFG) microstructures fabricated by equal-channel an-\par
Revised 30 December 2021\par
                                                             gular pressing (ECAP) and subsequent annealing processes. Signi\u64257?cant Bauschinger stress (transient soft-\par
Accepted 4 January 2022\par
                                                             ening), Bauschinger energy parameter and their strong dependences on the tensile plastic pre-strain at\par
Available online 12 January 2022\par
                                                             the very early stage of the tensile deformation were measured in the UFG specimens, in sharp contrast\par
Keywords:                                                    to their coarse-grained (CG) counterpart. The grain size dependence of the Bauschinger effect in pure Al\par
Mechanical properties                                        was qualitatively discussed in terms of the back stress arising from the formation of dislocation pile-up\par
Bauschinger effect                                           against the grain boundary during plastic deformation.\par
Back stress                                                                            \u169? 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of Acta Materialia Inc.\par
Ultra\u64257?ne-grained materials                                                                               This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license\par
                                                                                                                   (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
    The Bauschinger effect refers to the phenomenon that the \u64258?ow                                Several studies have been carried out to investigate the\par
stress of the material decreases when the loading direction is re-                          Bauschinger effect in the polycrystalline metallic materials with fo-\par
versed after a forward pre-straining, that has been well-known to                           cusing on the effect of grain size re\u64257?nement. Bouaziz and Aoua\u64257?\par
widely exist in single and polycrystalline metallic materials [1\u8211?4].                        measured the Bauschinger effect in a ferritic steel having grain\par
The Bauschinger effect plays an important role in several mechan-                           sizes ranging from 22.5 \u956?m to 3.5 \u956?m using a forward-reverse\par
ical properties that relate to the industrial applications of metallic                      shear test, and found that the back stress increased when the\par
materials, such as springback during metal forming [5], sagging be-                         grain size of the material decreased [15]. By using same method,\par
havior of spring steels [6] and pillar crush of automotive structural                       Bouaziz et al. also measured very high back stress that contributed\par
components [7,8], meanwhile it is also of signi\u64257?cant importance in                          to half of the total \u64258?ow stress in a \u64257?ne-grained (d = 3 \u956?m)\par
understanding the fundamental mechanisms of plastic deformation                             austenitic steel exhibiting deformation twinning [16]. More re-\par
and strain hardening of metallic materials [9,10]. Numerous studies                         cently the Bauschinger effect has been often evaluated by measur-\par
have been carried out to investigate the Bauschinger effect in met-                         ing the back stress using the hysteresis loop during tensile loading-\par
als and alloys, yet its mechanistic origins seem quite complex and                          unloading-reloading (LUR) test in the materials having heteroge-\par
have been arguing to date [2,10\u8211?12]. From the viewpoint of the                              neous microstructures consisting of both coarse and \u64257?ne grains,\par
microstructures of the metallic materials it is generally considered                        and it was suggested that the measured high back stress, presum-\par
that Bauschinger effect intrinsically originates from the back stress                       ably associated with the heterogeneous microstructures, accounted\par
experienced by the dislocations that are obstructed by the barri-                           for the good strain hardening capability of those materials [17,18].\par
ers, such as forest dislocations [10], precipitations [7,13] or grain                       However, disadvantages inevitably exist in the above-mentioned\par
boundaries [14] during plastic deformation.                                                 experimental methods. The Bauschinger tests in a shear or torsion\par
                                                                                            mode have a common problem of the homogeneity of the plas-\par
                                                                                            tic strain distribution during deformation. For the LUR test it has\par
                                                                                            been reported that the hysteresis effect during LUR test was es-\par
    \u8727?\par
        Corresponding author.\par
                                                                                            sentially identical and regardless of different microstructures if un-\par
        E-mail address: gao.si.8x@kyoto-u.ac.jp (S. Gao).                                   loading from the same tensile \u64258?ow stress [19,20], which seemed\par
\par
\par
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scriptamat.2022.114503\par
1359-6462/\u169? 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of Acta Materialia Inc. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license\par
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)\par
S. Gao, K. Yoshino, D. Terada et al.                                                                                  Scripta Materialia 211 (2022) 114503\par
\par
\par
to render some uncertainties of the method. Although it has been               formed in a uniaxial tension-compression mode by \u64257?rstly strain-\par
generally accepted that the Bauschinger effect increases as the                ing a specimen to a target forward tensile strain and then revers-\par
grain size of the material decreases, systematical research on the             ing the deformation to compressive direction. The schematic illus-\par
grain size dependence of Bauschinger effect in polycrystalline ma-             tration of a Bauschinger stress-strain curve is shown in Fig. 1(b).\par
terial is still insu\u64259?cient. Especially, Bauschinger test in the uniaxial       Several Bauschinger tension-compression tests with different ten-\par
tension-compression mode, to the best of the authors\u8217? knowledge,               sile forward strains were conducted for each grain size. Although\par
has never been performed on the ultra\u64257?ne-grained (UFG) materials               the magnitude of the Bauschinger effect can be evaluated by dif-\par
which exhibit superior strength and toughness owing to the signif-             ferent parameters [14,25], the Bauschinger stress \u963? BS [26] and\par
icant grain size re\u64257?nement strengthening [21,22]. That is because              Bauschinger energy parameter [27] were adopted to measure the\par
most of the processes capable of producing homogeneous UFG mi-                 Bauschinger effect in the present study, as illustrated in Fig. 1(b).\par
crostructures involves with a heavy or severe plastic deformation              The Bauschinger stress \u963? BS , also known as the transient softening,\par
which result in either a sheet-type or disk-type sample dimension              was de\u64257?ned by the difference between the tensile \u64258?ow stress at\par
after process [23,24]. The small thickness-to-width ratio of those             the target forward strain and 0.02% offset compressive yield stress.\par
sheet-type tensile test samples will inevitably cause the early oc-            The Bauschinger energy parameter \u946? E is de\u64257?ned by the ratio EB /EP ,\par
currence of buckling during compression deformation and lead to                where EP is the work done by the pre-deformation for achieving\par
failure of a Bauschinger test. Hence, the Bauschinger effect in the            certain strain in the tensile direction, and EB (Bauschinger energy)\par
UFG materials, which bears signi\u64257?cance to both the potential appli-            is the energy that saved for achieving the same amount of strain\par
cation of the UFG materials and the fundamental understanding of               in the subsequent compressive deformation due to the presence\par
the strengthening mechanism of ultra\u64257?ne-grained re\u64257?nement, re-                 of a Bauschinger effect. The Bauschinger energy EB can be consid-\par
mains a largely unexplored area.                                               ered as the elastic energy stored during tensile pre-deformation in\par
    In the present study, uniaxial tension-compression Bauschinger             a reversible way that it can be given out during the following com-\par
test was successfully performed on the dumb-bell shaped pure                   pression deformation. As a result of such \u8220?reversible\u8221? stored energy\par
Al specimens having homogeneous UFG microstructures fabri-                     by tension, the subsequent mechanical work by compressive defor-\par
cated by ECAP and subsequent annealing processes. The tension-                 mation was smaller than that would have been required by tensile\par
compression stress-strain behaviors of the UFG materials were                  deformation. The Bauschinger energy parameter \u946? E measures the\par
presented for the \u64257?rst time, and signi\u64257?cantly higher Bauschinger               portion of such reversible stored energy in the total work done by\par
stresses and Bauschinger energy parameters were measured in the                pre-deformation. It is considered to be another adequate measure\par
UFG Al than that in the CG Al, which is believed to provide insight            of the Bauschinger effect, since it is associated with the area under\par
on the mechanism of ultra-grain re\u64257?nement strengthening.                       the stress-strain curve, which can re\u64258?ect the effects of both stress\par
    A commercial 2N-Al (JIS-1100Al) having chemical composition                and strain. Note that the measurement of the Bauschinger energy\par
of Al-0.1%Si-0.56%Fe-0.1%Cu (mass%) was used in the present study.             EB in the present study is slightly different from that in [27], be-\par
The receiving extruded rods having diameter of 10 mm and length                cause we considered that measuring the saved energy for achiev-\par
of 10 0 0 mm were cut into 60 mm in length and then solution-                  ing the same amount of the strain, rather than the same level of\par
treated at 400 \u176?C for 60 min in a box-type furnace followed by                 the stress (adopted in [27]), as that of the pre-deformation pos-\par
water quench. The ECAP process and the geometry of the tensile                 sessed a more straightforward physical meaning when discussing\par
test specimen are schematically illustrated in Fig. 1(a). The ECAP             the \u8220?stored\u8221? and \u8220?saved\u8221? energy. In the following we use \u8220?the mod-\par
process was carried out at room temperature in a solid die with a              i\u64257?ed Bauschinger energy parameter\u8221? or \u8220?the \u946? ME \u8221? in order to dis-\par
channel having a circular cross section in a diameter of 10 mm,                tinguish it from the de\u64257?nition in [27].\par
inner angle () of 90\u176? and an outer angle ( ) of 20\u176? 8 passes                     The SEM-EBSD grain boundary maps and the inverse pole \u64257?g-\par
of ECAP processes were conducted on the specimens without ro-                  ures along the extrusion direction (ED) of the specimens are shown\par
tation about the extrusion direction between each pass. The as-                in Fig. 2(a)\u8211?(f). The as-ECAP processed specimen has ultra-\u64257?ne mi-\par
ECAP processed rods were then machined into dumbbell-shaped                    crostructures that elongate along ED and contain largely high an-\par
tensile test specimens having a gage length in 6 mm and gage                   gle grain boundaries with a mean grain size of 0.56 \u956?m, which is a\par
diameter in 4 mm, with its tension-compression axis parallel to                typical microstructure after severe plastic deformation (SPD) pro-\par
the extrusion direction (ED). The tensile test specimens were an-              cesses [28]. Grain coarsening occurred by annealing at 200 \u176?C for\par
nealed at 200 or 350 \u176?C for 60 min in an oil bath or a box-type                60 min, and the microstructures bear a more equiaxed morphol-\par
furnace to vary the mean grain sizes. Microstructures were ob-                 ogy with mean grain size of 0.68 \u956?m. By increasing the anneal-\par
served on the cross section through the transverse direction (TD)              ing temperature to 350 \u176?C fully equiaxed microstructures mostly\par
of the specimens by SEM-EBSD and the mean grain size were mea-                 consisting of high angle grain boundaries are observed, and a rela-\par
sured by intercept method using EBSD boundary maps. Mechanical                 tively coarse grain (CG) size of 6.0 \u956?m was measured. The inverse\par
tests were carried out using a servo-hydraulic fatigue testing ma-             pole \u64257?gures in Fig. 2(d)\u8211?(f) show that the three specimens have\par
chine (Shimadzu Servo Pulser EHF-LB10kN-10 N). To ensure stress-               a similar and weak texture of <110>//ED and <120>//ED. Here-\par
free gripping of the specimen, the screw-type jig was fastened to              after the as-ECAP processed specimen, 200 and 350 \u176?C annealed\par
the fatigue testing machine with a help of low melting-point al-               specimens are referred to as UFG-1, UFG-2 and CG specimen\par
loy. A strain gage (KFEL-2\u8211?120-C1, Kyowa Electronic Instruments                respectively.\par
Co., Ltd.) was cemented on the gage part of the tensile test speci-                Monotonic tensile stress-strain curves of the three specimens\par
men, which allowed a precise measurement of the axial strain up                are shown in Fig. 3(a). The CG specimen exhibits a low yield stress\par
to \u177?15%. All the mechanical tests were carried out at room tem-                (\u963? 0.2% ) of 42 MPa, a prolonged strain hardening region with a uni-\par
perature with an initial strain rate of 2.8 \u215? 10\u8722?2 s\u8722?1 . For the spec-         form elongation of 30% and an ultimate tensile strength (\u963? UTS )\par
imens having an identical grain size, a monotonic tension and a                of 96 MPa. By contrast, the UFG-1 specimen exhibits a dramati-\par
monotonic compression tests were \u64257?rstly performed, and it was                  cally higher \u963? 0.2% of 200 MPa and a \u963? UTS of 266 MPa, but a quite\par
con\u64257?rmed that for all three different grain sizes there was no sig-            limited uniform elongation of 1.7%. The UFG-2 specimen exhibits\par
ni\u64257?cant tension/compression asymmetry in the \u64258?ow stress before                 a \u963? 0.2% of 193 MPa, a \u963? UTS of 206 MPa and an even less uni-\par
reaching a plastic instability, although the as-ECAP specimen ex-              form elongation of only 0.6% compared with that of the UFG-1\par
hibited a slightly higher tensile \u64258?ow stress of around 20 MPa than             specimen. The high yield strength and high strain hardening rate\par
the compressive \u64258?ow stress. Then, the Bauschinger test was per-                at small tensile strain of the UFG specimens, which can be read-\par
\par
                                                                           2\par
S. Gao, K. Yoshino, D. Terada et al.                                                                                                   Scripta Materialia 211 (2022) 114503\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 1. (a) The schematic illustration of ECAP process and tensile test sample dimension in present study. (b) The Schematic illustration of a typical tension-compression\par
Bauschinger stress-strain curve.\par
\par
\par
\par
ily recognized in the enlarged stress-strain curves in the inset of                     in the nominal stress immediately after reaching UTS was noticed\par
Fig. 3(a), are typical features of the UFG metals that have been gen-                   in the stress-strain curves of UFG-1 and UFG-2 specimens, which\par
erally attributed to the signi\u64257?cant grain size re\u64257?nement strength-                      was associated with the formation of severe localized shear bands\par
ening [23,29\u8211?33]. The poor tensile uniform elongation of the UFG                        that observed on the gage of the specimens. Such localized shear\par
specimens, on the other hand, is due to the early plastic insta-                        bands have been frequently observed in nanostructured materials\par
bility caused by a lack of strain hardening capability of the UFG                       and seem to be crucial to the ductility of those materials [29,36\u8211?\par
microstructures at high stress levels [23,34,35]. A steep decrease                      41].\par
\par
                                                                                    3\par
S. Gao, K. Yoshino, D. Terada et al.                                                                                                 Scripta Materialia 211 (2022) 114503\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 2. The grain boundary maps (a)\u8211?(c) and inverse pole \u64257?gures (d)\u8211?(f) along the extrusion direction (ED) of as-ECAP specimen, ECAP with subsequent annealing at 200 \u176?C\par
and 350 \u176?C for 60 min. High angle grain boundary is indicated by green color and low angle grain boundary is indicated by red color.\par
\par
\par
\par
    The stress-strain curves of the Bauschinger tests for the three                    glance, all of the mirrored compressive \u64258?ow curves of the CG and\par
different grain sizes are displayed in Fig. 3(b)\u8211?(d). Various tensile                  UFG specimens exhibit the transient softening behavior, indicat-\par
forward strains in the range from 0.001 to 0.06 were applied to the                    ing that Bauschinger effect exists in the present polycrystalline Al\par
CG specimens, whereas only up to 0.01 and 0.004 forward strain                         specimens. The compressive yield stress (\u963? 0.02% ) is marked by blue\par
was respectively applied to the UFG-1 and UFG-2 specimens since                        circle on each mirrored compression curve, and it is readily seen\par
the strain reversion must be performed within the uniform elon-                        that in all three grain sizes the difference between the marked\par
gation range before the strain localization starts to occur. At a \u64257?rst                 compressive yield stress and the tensile \u64258?ow stress before strain\par
\par
\par
                                                                                   4\par
S. Gao, K. Yoshino, D. Terada et al.                                                                                                      Scripta Materialia 211 (2022) 114503\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 3. Stress-strain curves of monotonic tensile test on three grain sizes (a) and Bauschinger test on UFG-1 (b), UFG-2 (c) and CG (d) specimen. In (b), (c) and (d) the full\par
Bauschinger tension-compression curves are colored in black and the mirrored compressive stress-strain curves are colored in red. The yield stress \u963? 0.02 of the mirrored\par
compressive stress-strain curve is marked by blue circles.\par
\par
\par
\par
reversion, namely the Bauschinger stress \u963? BS , increases with the                        because of the extremely limited grain interior space [45,46]. Fol-\par
forward strain.                                                                           lowing the transient softening the mirrored compressive stress\par
    The Bauschinger stress-strain behavior of the CG specimen in                          gradually reached a maximum that approximately equals to the\par
Fig. 3(b) differed in compression direction depending on the ten-                         UTS of monotonic tensile curve, and then started to decrease. Ac-\par
sile pre-strain. At small tensile forward strain (\u603?p <0.005), the mir-                    companying the decreasing in the compressive stress, deforma-\par
rored compressive curves showed a transient softening at the                              tion localized bands were also observed on the gage of both UFG\par
beginning of compression and then they overlapped with the                                specimens. It was interesting to note in the insets of Fig. 3(c)\par
monotonic tensile curve without exhibiting permanent softening.                           and (d) that the compressive yield stress \u963? R decreased with the\par
When the forward strain increased to 0.013, a permanent soften-                           increasing forward strain in both UFG-1 and UFG-2 specimens,\par
ing around 10 MPa was observed after the transient softening. By                          which was opposite to the tendency of \u963? R in the CG specimen\par
further increasing in the forward strain to 0.03, a work harden-                          and suggested a more pronounced Bauschinger effect in the UFG\par
ing stagnation (the plateau part) was noticed after the transient                         specimens.\par
softening, and the level of the permanent softening slightly in-                              The measured Bauschinger stress (\u963? BS ) of the specimens is plot-\par
creased to 14 MPa. The length of work hardening stagnation ex-                            ted as a function of tensile forward plastic strain (\u949? p ) in Fig. 4(a).\par
tended when the forward strain increased from 0.03 to 0.06, mean-                         The \u963? BS in the CG specimen increased from 20 to 60 MPa when\par
while the amount of permanent softening increased to around                               the \u949? p increased from 0.0 0 01 to 0.043 and then it was likely to sat-\par
20 MPa. The appearance of the strain hardening stagnation and                             urate at 60 MPa when the \u949? p increased from 0.043 to 0.06. These\par
the permanent softening in the Bauschinger test was attributed                            results are compatible with the early research on the Bauschinger\par
to the dissolution of the dislocation cell structures formed dur-                         effect of pure Al having a coarse grain size of 50 \u956?m [26]. In sharp\par
ing tensile forward straining, that have been well-established for                        contrast, the \u963? BS in the UFG specimens bears signi\u64257?cantly higher\par
polycrystalline metals having coarse grain size [42\u8211?44]. In sharp                         value and much more rapid increasing rate with the \u949? p . For in-\par
contrast to the Bauschinger stress-strain behavior of the CG spec-                        stance, the \u963? BS increased from 30 to 205 MPa when the \u949? p in-\par
imen, those of the UFG specimens exhibited a remarkable tran-                             creased from 0.0 0 02 to only 0.0 07 in the UFG-1 specimen, and in\par
sient softening at the beginning of compression, however, with-                           the UFG-2 specimen it increased from 50 to 120 MPa when the\par
out exhibiting either a strain hardening stagnation or a notable                          \u949?p increased from 0.0 0 02 to 0.0 012. Such signi\u64257?cant \u963? BS and its\par
permanent softening, as shown in Fig. 3(c) and (d). This is pos-                          strong dependence on the \u949? p at the beginning of plastic deforma-\par
sibly due to the fact that in the UFG specimens the dislocations                          tion were interestingly coinciding with the high \u64258?ow stress and\par
introduced by small forward strain tends to be stored near the                            the high strain hardening rate in the monotonic tensile deforma-\par
grain boundaries instead of forming dislocation cells and tangles                         tion of the UFG specimens, implying a strong correlation between\par
\par
                                                                                      5\par
S. Gao, K. Yoshino, D. Terada et al.                                                                                                             Scripta Materialia 211 (2022) 114503\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 4. (a) The measured Bauschinger stress of UFG-1, UFG-2 and CG Al specimens plotted as a function of tensile plastic forward strain (\u949? p ). The inset shows the Bauschinger\par
stress as a function of the logarithm of \u949? p , for demonstrating the details at small \u949? p . The \u949? p was measured by extracting the elastic strain from the total tensile strain using a\par
measured elastic modulus of 69 GPa. (b) The modi\u64257?ed Bauschinger energy parameter \u946? ME of the UFG and CG specimens plotted as a function of the tensile plastic pre-strain.\par
Note that the \u946? ME of the CG specimen at pre-strain of 0.06 was not plotted since during the experiment the deformation was stopped at where the reverse compressive\par
strain was smaller than the tensile forward strain and thus the \u946? ME could not be measured.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
the Bauschinger effect and the grain size re\u64257?nement strengthening                             ior of polycrystalline pure copper, in that the geometrical necessary\par
in the UFG specimens.                                                                         dislocations (GND) of the same sign stored near the grain bound-\par
    The grain size dependence of the Bauschinger stress in the                                aries at the beginning of tensile deformation were considered as\par
present Al specimens can be qualitatively interpreted in terms of                             pile-up dislocations that build up back stress \u963?b described by the\par
the back stress that rises from the interaction between the dis-                              following equation [15].:\par
locations and grain boundaries. In polycrystalline metallic materi-\par
                                                                                                        \u956?b\par
als grain boundaries generally act as strong barriers to impede the                           \u963?b = M         n                                                                    (1)\par
dislocation movements during plastic deformation and the disloca-                                        D\par
tions are therefore stored in the vicinity of grain boundaries and                            where M is the Taylor factor, \u956? is the shear modulus, b is the Burg-\par
build up back stress. Sinclair et al. [47] proposed a physical model                          ers vector, D is the mean grain size and n is the number of dis-\par
to interpret the grain size dependence of strain hardening behav-                             locations that are piling up against the grain boundary in a slip\par
\par
                                                                                          6\par
S. Gao, K. Yoshino, D. Terada et al.                                                                                           Scripta Materialia 211 (2022) 114503\par
\par
\par
plane. It is realized in Eq. (1) that the back stress increases when         sidered that in UFG Al specimens the GNDs at the beginning of\par
the grain size of the material decreases. In addition, according to          tensile deformation not only generated high back stress but also\par
Ashby\u8217?s GND theory the accumulation rate of the GND with plas-               possessed high reversibility that can be removed upon compres-\par
tic strain increases with decreasing grain size of the polycrystalline       sion, resulted in a large portion of the stored energy reversable\par
material [48], and therefore the accumulation rate of the pile-up            and hence a high \u946? ME . The smaller \u946? ME in the CG specimen was\par
dislocations with plastic strain, which is associated with the in-           possibly due to the much lower GND density than that in the UFG\par
creasing rate of term n with plastic strain in Eq. (1), is expected to       specimens. The \u946? ME dramatically decreased with the plastic pre-\par
be enhanced by decreasing the grain size as well. Consequently,              strain for both UFG and CG specimens, which implied that the re-\par
both of the back stress and its increasing (hardening) rate with             versable part of the stored energy, in other words the reversibility\par
plastic strain are higher in the small grained material than in the          of the microstructures, declined with increasing the plastic defor-\par
large grained one, just as was observed in the present Al speci-             mation. This was possibly associated with increasing of the statisti-\par
mens shown in Fig. 4. Such a high back stress and its high hard-             cally stored dislocations that are irreversible. Other factors, such as\par
ening rate are considered to have a major contribution to the high           the un-bowing of the bowed dislocations from a dislocation source,\par
strength and strain hardening rate in the tensile deformation of the         may have also contributed to the reverse strain. However such con-\par
present UFG specimens. Taking M = 3.04, \u956? =26 GPa, b = 0.286 nm              tribution was much smaller than the total amount of reverse strain\par
and D = 0.5 \u956?m for pure Al into Eq. (1), one obtained a signif-              associated with the transient softening [54].\par
icant back stress of 100 MPa generated by a pile-up having only                  In summary, for the \u64257?rst time the Bauschinger test in uni-\par
3 dislocations, which approximated the highest back stress exper-            axial tension-compression mode has been successfully performed\par
imentally measured in the UFG sample (D = 0.56 \u956?m). Although                 on the pure Al having homogeneous UFG microstructures, and\par
the existence of pile-up dislocations in materials having high stack-        high Bauschinger stress and Bauschinger energy parameter with a\par
ing fault energy or \u64257?ne grain size has been a matter of some de-             strong dependence on the forward strain was measured at the very\par
bate, such dislocation pile-up having only few dislocations have             beginning of plastic deformation. It is suggested that the signi\u64257?-\par
been experimentally observed in UFG pure Al [49,50], as well as in           cant Bauschinger effect in the UFG specimen was associated with\par
other UFG metals [45]. The very recent deformation-mechanism-                the GNDs stored at the grain boundaries, which built up high back\par
based constitutive modeling works on nanostructured materials by             stress in a form of dislocation pile-up and contributed to the re-\par
Zhao et al. [51,52] are noticed in support of the current exper-             verse compressive deformation. As the importance of high back\par
imental results and interpretations, in which the back stress in-            stress generated by dislocation pile-up has been suggested and ex-\par
duced by GNDs in a form of dislocation pile-up was employed. It              perimentally veri\u64257?ed in several works [50,55\u8211?57], it is considered\par
was interesting to note that the \u963? BS in the UFG-2 specimen was              as an important factor in the strength and strain hardening of UFG\par
even slightly higher than that in the UFG-1 specimen, although               materials, and a detailed investigation is expected to clarify the\par
the UFG-2 specimen has a larger mean grain size. This was pos-               dislocation microstructures during the forward and reverse strain-\par
sibly related to the non-equilibrium grain boundaries in the UFG-            ing in the UFG Al specimen.\par
1 specimen created by the ECAP process [53], which have resid-\par
ual stress (strain) at the grain boundaries that might partially can-        Declaration of Competing Interest\par
cel the back stress generated by dislocation pile-up during forward\par
straining. While in the UFG-2 specimen the residual strains at grain             The authors declare that they have no known competing \u64257?nan-\par
boundaries were relaxed by low temperature annealing, leading                cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to\par
to the higher back stress than in UFG-1 specimen. The high back              in\u64258?uence the work reported in this paper.\par
stress hardening at small plastic strain in the UFG specimens might\par
have quickly saturated with further increasing the plastic strain,           Acknowledgment\par
which caused the early plastic instability and low tensile ductil-\par
ity of those specimens. The underlying mechanism of that could                  The present study was \u64257?nancially supported by JST (Japan\par
be associated with any process that can suppress the accumula-               Science and Technology Agency) CREST (JPMJCR1994), Ele-\par
tion of pile-up dislocations, such as the activation of cross-slip of        ments Strategy Initiative for Structural Materials (ESISM, No.\par
the pile-up dislocation or the absorption of pile-up dislocation by          JPMXP01121010 0 0), and KAKENHI (Grant-in-Aid for Scienti\u64257?c\par
grain boundaries, although the details are yet to be experimentally          Research from JSPS; No.15H05767 and No.20H00306) all through\par
veri\u64257?ed.                                                                     the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology\par
    The measured \u946? ME for three different grain sizes are plotted            (MEXT), Japan. The ECAP experiment was performed in Kyushu\par
versus the plastic pre-strain in Fig. 4(b), from which a signi\u64257?cant          University with the help of Prof. Zenji Horita and Dr. Kaveh Edalati.\par
Bauschinger effect is again recognized in the UFG specimens. Both            The authors gratefully appreciate all the supports.\par
UFG specimens showed a quite high \u946? ME about 0.8 at the pre-                 References\par
strain of around 0.0 0 02, and then the \u946? ME rapidly decreased with\par
the pre-strain at an almost same rate. The \u946? ME of CG specimen                [1]   D. Wilson, Acta Metall. 13 (1965) 807\u8211?814.\par
was much lower than that of the UFG specimens, which decreased                [2]   O.B. Pedersen, L.M. Brown, W.M. Stobbs, Acta Metall. 29 (1981) 1843\u8211?1850.\par
                                                                              [3]   L.M. Brown, W.M. Stobbs, Philos. Mag. 23 (1971) 1201\u8211?1233.\par
from 0.37 to 0.2 when the pre-strain increased from 0.001 to 0.05.\par
                                                                              [4]   S.N. Buckley, K.M. Entwistle, Acta Metall. 4 (1956) 352\u8211?361.\par
The high \u946? ME in the UFG specimens seemed to suggest that at                  [5]   K.P. Li, W.P. Carden, R.H. Wagoner, Int. J. Mech. Sci. 44 (2002) 103\u8211?122.\par
small pre-strain most of the mechanical work done by tensile pre-             [6]   M. Assefpour-Dezfuly, A. Brownrigg, Metall. Trans. A 20 (1989) 1951\u8211?1959.\par
                                                                              [7]   W. Gan, H.J. Bong, H. Lim, R.K. Boger, F. Barlat, R.H. Wagoner, Mater. Sci. Eng.\par
deformation was stored as reversable elastic energy that it was\par
                                                                                    A 684 (2017) 353\u8211?372.\par
then released to assist the subsequent compressive deformation,               [8]   Z. Chen, U. Gandhi, J. Lee, R.H. Wagoner, J. Mater. Process. Technol. 227 (2016)\par
which is surprising since plastic deformation is generally a highly                 227\u8211?243.\par
dissipative and irreversible process. The reversibility of the stored         [9]   U.F. Kocks, H. Mecking, Prog. Mater. Sci. 48 (2003) 171\u8211?273.\par
                                                                             [10]   L.M. Brown, Scr. Metall. 11 (1977) 127\u8211?131.\par
energy can be rationalized in terms of the so-called microstruc-             [11]   R.A. Elliot, E. Orowan, T. Udoguchi, A.S. Argon, Mech. Mater. 36 (2004)\par
tural reversibility of the GNDs, which was suggested by Demir and                   1143\u8211?1153.\par
Raabe who observed a large Bauschinger effect associated with the            [12]   A.A. Mamun, R.J. Moat, J. Kelleher, P.J. Bouchard, Mater. Sci. Eng. A 707 (2017)\par
                                                                                    576\u8211?584.\par
formation and remove of the GNDs in a micro-sized single-crystal             [13]   G. Fribourg, Y. Br\u233?chet, A. Deschamps, A. Simar, Acta Mater. 59 (2011)\par
copper beam subjected to bending and straightening [53]. It is con-                 3621\u8211?3635.\par
\par
\par
                                                                         7\par
S. Gao, K. Yoshino, D. Terada et al.                                                                                                           Scripta Materialia 211 (2022) 114503\par
\par
\par
[14] J.K. Mahato, P.S. De, A. Sarkar, A. Kundu, P.C. Chakraborti, Int. J. Fatigue 83        [38] Q. Wei, D. Jia, K.T. Ramesh, E. Ma, Appl. Phys. Lett. 81 (2002) 1240\u8211?1242.\par
     (2015) 42\u8211?52.                                                                          [39] A.M. Hodge, T.A. Furnish, A.A. Navid, T.W. Barbee, Scr. Mater. 65 (2011)\par
[15] O. Bouaziz, A. Aoua\u64257?, S. Allain, Mater. Sci. Forum 584 (2008) 605\u8211?609.                      1006\u8211?1009.\par
[16] O. Bouaziz, S. Allain, C. Scott, Scr. Mater. 58 (2008) 484\u8211?487.                        [40] Y.F. Wang, C.X. Huang, Q. He, F.J. Guo, M.S. Wang, L.Y. Song, Y.T. Zhu, Scr. Mater.\par
[17] M. Yang, Y. Pan, F. Yuan, Y. Zhu, X. Wu, Mater. Res. Lett. 4 (2016) 145\u8211?151.                170 (2019) 76\u8211?80.\par
[18] X. Wu, P. Jiang, L. Chen, F. Yuan, Y.T. Zhu, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 111       [41] R. Schwab, Int. J. Plast. 113 (2019) 218\u8211?235.\par
     (2014) 7197\u8211?7201.                                                                      [42] E.F.F. Rauch, J.J.J. Gracio, F. Barlat, B.B. Lopes, J.Ferreira Duarte, Scr. Mater. 46\par
[19] C.E. Slone, J. Miao, E.P. George, M.J. Mills, Acta Mater. 165 (2019) 496\u8211?507.               (2002) 881\u8211?886.\par
[20] L. Sun, R.H. Wagoner, Int. J. Plast. 27 (2011) 1126\u8211?1144.                              [43] Z. Hu, E.F. Rauch, C. Teodosiu, Int. J. Plast. 8 (1992) 839\u8211?856.\par
[21] M. Haouaoui, I. Karaman, H.J. Maier, Acta Mater. 54 (2006) 5477\u8211?5488.                  [44] T. Yakou, T. Hasegawa, S. Karashima, Trans. Japan Inst. Met. 26 (1985) 88\u8211?93.\par
[22] T. Koizumi, M. Kuroda, Key Eng. Mater. 725 (2016) 202\u8211?207.                             [45] S. Itoh, K. Nakazawa, T. Matsunaga, Y. Matsukawa, Y. Satoh, H. Abe, ISIJ Int. 54\par
[23] N. Tsuji, Y. Ito, Y. Saito, Y. Minamino, Scr. Mater. 47 (2002) 893\u8211?899.                     (2014) 1729\u8211?1734.\par
[24] K. Edalati, T. Furuta, T. Daio, S. Kuramoto, Z. Horita, Mater. Res. Lett. 3831         [46] Y.Z. Tian, L.J. Zhao, N. Park, R. Liu, P. Zhang, Z.J. Zhang, A. Shibata, Z.F. Zhang,\par
     (2015) 1\u8211?6.                                                                                 N. Tsuji, Acta Mater. 110 (2016) 61\u8211?72.\par
[25] A. Vinogradov, Y. Kaneko, K. Kitagawa, S. Hashimoto, V. Stolyarov, R. Valiev,          [47] C.W. Sinclair, W.J. Poole, Y. Br\u233?chet, Scr. Mater. 55 (2006) 739\u8211?742.\par
     Scr. Mater. 36 (1997) 1345\u8211?1351.                                                       [48] M.F. Ashby, Philos. Mag. 21 (1970) 399\u8211?424.\par
[26] T. Kishi, T. Tanabe, J. Mech. Phys. Solids 21 (1973) 303\u8211?315.                          [49] W. Chrominski, M. Lewandowska, Mater. Sci. Eng. A 715 (2018) 320\u8211?331.\par
[27] A. Abel, H. Muir, Philos. Mag. 26 (1972) 489\u8211?504.                                      [50] F. Mompiou, D. Caillard, M. Legros, H. Mughrabi, Acta Mater. 60 (2012)\par
[28] A. Azushima, R. Kopp, A. Korhonen, D.Y. Yang, F. Micari, G.D. Lahoti, P. Groche,            3402\u8211?3414.\par
     J. Yanagimoto, N. Tsuji, A. Rosochowski, A. Yanagida, CIRP Ann. Manuf. Technol.        [51] J. Zhao, M. Zaiser, X. Lu, B. Zhang, C. Huang, G. Kang, X. Zhang, Int. J. Plast. 145\par
     57 (2008) 716\u8211?735.                                                                          (2021) 103063.\par
[29] C.Y. Yu, P.W. Kao, C.P. Chang, Acta Mater. 53 (2005) 4019\u8211?4028.                        [52] J. Zhao, X. Lu, J. Liu, C. Bao, G. Kang, M. Zaiser, X. Zhang, Mech. Mater. 159\par
[30] H. Li, F. Ebrahimi, Acta Mater. 54 (2006) 2877\u8211?2886.                                        (2021) 103912.\par
[31] H. Adachi, Y. Karamatsu, S. Nakayama, T. Miyazawa, M. Sato, T. Yamasaki,               [53] E. Demir, D. Raabe, Acta Mater. 58 (2010) 6055\u8211?6063.\par
     Mater. Trans. 57 (2016) 1447\u8211?1453.                                                     [54] M.E. Kassner, P. Geantil, L.E. Levine, Int. J. Plast. 45 (2013) 44\u8211?60.\par
[32] A.M. Hodge, Y.M. Wang, T.W. Barbee, Scr. Mater. 59 (2008) 163\u8211?166.                     [55] M.W. Kapp, C. Kirchlechner, R. Pippan, G. Dehm, J. Mater. Res. 30 (2015)\par
[33] T. Koizumi, M. Kuroda, Mater. Sci. Eng. A 710 (2018) 300\u8211?308.                               791\u8211?797.\par
[34] E. Ma, Scr. Mater. 49 (2003) 663\u8211?668.                                                  [56] T. Masumura, Y. Seto, T. Tsuchiyama, K. Kimura, Mater. Trans. 61 (2020)\par
[35] M. Dao, L. Lu, R.J. Asaro, J.T.M. De Hosson, E. Ma, Acta Mater. 55 (2007)                   678\u8211?684.\par
     4041\u8211?4065.                                                                             [57] T.S. Byun, N. Hashimoto, J. Nucl. Mater. 354 (2006) 123\u8211?130.\par
[36] D. Jia, K.T. Ramesh, E. Ma, Acta Mater. 51 (2003) 3495\u8211?3509.\par
[37] Y. Wang, C. Huang, Y. Li, F. Guo, Q. He, M. Wang, X. Wu, R.O. Scattergood,\par
     Y. Zhu, Int. J. Plast. (2019) 1\u8211?13.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                        8\par

}