{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
FULL CRITICAL REVIEW\par
Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect \u8211? a survey\par
of grain-size strengthening studies on pure\par
metals\par
Z. C. Cordero, B. E. Knight and C. A. Schuh\u8727?\par
Re\u64257?ning a metal\u8217?s grain size can result in dramatic increases in strength, and the magnitude of this\par
strengthening increment can be estimated using the Hall\u8211?Petch equation. Since the Hall\u8211?Petch\par
equation was proposed, there have been many experimental studies supporting its applicability\par
to pure metals, intermetallics and multi-phase alloys. In this article, we gather the grain-size\par
strengthening data from the Hall\u8211?Petch studies on pure metals and use this aggregated data to\par
calculate best estimates of these metals\u8217? Hall\u8211?Petch parameters. We also use this aggregated\par
data to re-evaluate the various models developed to physically support the Hall\u8211?Petch scaling.\par
Keywords: Hall\u8211?Petch, Grain-size strengthening, Nanocrystalline metals, Dislocations\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Introduction                                                                       discussion of the possible mechanisms that give rise to\par
                                  1               2\par
                                                                                   power-law grain-size strengthening such as equation (1)\par
In the early 1950\u8217?s, Hall and Petch empirically demon-                             by comparing this aggregated grain-size strengthening\par
strated that the initial yield point of low carbon steels,                         data with predictions from the many models that have\par
\u963?y, was related to their grain size, D, according to the                           been proposed to physically support equation (1).\par
now well-known Hall\u8211?Petch relationship:                                               Along these lines, this survey contains two main sections\par
                                         1                                         which address each of these goals in turn. In the \u64257?rst sec-\par
                            sy = s0 + k \u8730?                                 (1)   tion, we present all of the currently available grain-size\par
                                          D                                        strengthening data we have found in the open literature,\par
where s0 and k are chemistry- and microstructure-depen-                            and summarize best estimates of \u963?0 and k for each of the\par
dent constants. In the six decades since Hall\u8217?s and Petch\u8217?s                        pure metals that have been studied. Subsequently, we com-\par
work, subsequent experimental studies have demon-                                  pare the trends seen in this aggregated grain-size strength-\par
strated that equation (1) or similar power laws apply not                          ening data with those predicted by the various theories\par
just to the initial yield of mild steels, but to the yield                         explaining equation (1), starting with the pile-up model\par
and \u64258?ow stresses of other pure metals and alloys.3 Despite                         proposed by Hall in his original paper.1,9 We also brie\u64258?y\par
the simplicity of equation (1) and its neglect of, e.g., crys-                     discuss the breakdown in the Hall\u8211?Petch scaling seen in\par
tallographic texture, other defect structures beyond grain                         the \u64257?nest grain-size nanocrystalline samples. The collec-\par
boundaries, etc., it has proven remarkably relevant to                             tion of many studies in a single analysis permits us to illus-\par
metallurgy over that time. Because of such studies,                                trate some effects of crystal structure, bond strength,\par
grain-size strengthening data exists for most of the tran-                         temperature and plastic strain on \u963?0 and k that have not\par
sition metals4,5 as well as pure Be,6 Mg7 and Al.8 And                             always been easily appreciated from individual studies.\par
owing to the interest in nanocrystalline metals over the\par
past two decades, for several of these metals there is\par
now grain-size strengthening data spanning six decades                             Grain-size strengthening data\par
of grain size, from millimetre to nanometer-size grains.                           We summarize the BCC transition metals\u8217? grain-size\par
   In this article, we gather and assess grain-size strength-                      strengthening data in Fig. 1a\u8211?g. In each of these \u64257?gures,\par
ening data for pure metals. Our two main motivations                               we plot results from the various Hall\u8211?Petch studies on\par
for this undertaking were the following. First, in the course                      the different metals as well as best \u64257?ts to the entirety of\par
of our own work on the design of nanocrystalline alloys, we                        the data using equation (1). The open points indicate\par
felt the need for a reference compilation that could be used                       \u64258?ow stresses measured using tension and compression\par
to estimate grain-size strengthening effects in pure metals                        tests while the closed points indicate Vickers and nanoin-\par
and alloys, and which could be more broadly useful to                              dentation hardness measurements that were divided by a\par
the mechanics of materials and microstructural design                              Tabor factor of 3 to convert to strength measurements.\par
communities. Second, we wanted to encourage renewed                                Figures 2 and 3 are formatted in the same way as Fig. 1,\par
                                                                                   but show data for the FCC and HCP metals, respectively.\par
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA                Most of the \u64258?ow stresses included in Figs. 1\u8211?3 were\par
02139, USA                                                                         measured at plastic strains of order 0.2%, though some\par
\u8727?\par
    Corresponding author, email schuh@mit.edu                                      of the data points are from larger plastic strains, of order\par
\par
\par
\u169? 2016 Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining and ASM International\par
Published by Taylor & Francis on behalf of the Institute and ASM International\par
Received 8 December 2015; accepted 13 May 2016\par
DOI 10.1080/09506608.2016.1191808                                                         International Materials Reviews   2016   VOL   61   NO   8   495\par
Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
         1 Aggregated Hall\u8211?Petch data for each of the BCC metals as well as best \u64257?ts to the data using equation (1). The closed points\par
           indicate Vickers and nanoindentation hardness measurements that were divided by a Tabor factor of 3 while the open points\par
           indicate yield strengths measured using compression or tension tests. The references included in a\u8211?g are as follows: a 12\u8211?18;\par
           b 19\u8211?29; c 14,30\u8211?37; d 38\u8211?56; e 57\u8211?60; f 61\u8211?66 and g 67,68\par
\par
\par
         1%, because those were the smallest strain values reported.        by different thermomechanical processing techniques,\par
         The data in Figs. 1\u8211?3 are provided in the supplementary            e.g., swaging, rolling or repeated upset forging, followed\par
         material (Supplementary Materials 1 and 2).                        by recrystallization anneals. These different deformation\par
           One prominent feature of Figs. 1\u8211?3 is the scatter                processing techniques can produce distinct textures and,\par
         among the different studies\u8217? results. In many cases, this          depending on the environment in which they are con-\par
         scatter can be ascribed to differences in sample prep-             ducted, achieve different purities, both of which can\par
         aration and testing methods. For example, studies on               have secondary effects on the grain-size strengthening\par
         coarse-grained metals typically use specimens prepared             behaviour.10,11\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
496     International Materials Reviews         2016    VOL   61   NO   8\par
                                                                                          Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
2 Aggregated Hall\u8211?Petch data for each of the FCC metals as well as best \u64257?ts to the data using equation (1). The closed points\par
  indicate Vickers and nanoindentation hardness measurements that were divided by a Tabor factor of 3 while the open points\par
  indicate yield strengths measured using compression or tension tests. The references included in a\u8211?e are as follows: a 69\u8211?86;\par
  b 87\u8211?91; c 92\u8211?95; d 96\u8211?107 and e 8,108\u8211?122\par
\par
\par
   Table 1 summarizes our best estimates of \u963?0 and k at          Models for grain-size strengthening\par
a plastic strain of order 0.2% for the metals included in\par
Figs. 1\u8211?3; metals absent from Table 1 have not been              We now turn our attention to the theoretical underpin-\par
studied to the best of our knowledge or, as with Pd,             nings of equation (1). Table 2 summarizes various differ-\par
do not appear to have suf\u64257?cient, high-quality data.              ent models that have been proposed to explain equation\par
The \u963?0 and k values are from best \u64257?ts of equation (1)            (1) and the data presented in Figs. 1\u8211?3. Most of these\par
to the aggregated grain-size strengthening data, with            models treat the two terms on the right hand side\par
equal weighting to every data point from every study.            of equation (1) separately: the physics associated\par
We exercised some value judgments in this analysis,              with grain-size strengthening is assumed to be encoded\par
and speci\u64257?cally excluded data that had been questioned           in k and the grain-size exponent in the second term,\par
due to processing artefacts; this is especially the case         while \u963?0 is taken to account for all strengthening effects\par
for the \u64257?nest grain sizes near the Hall\u8211?Petch break-             unrelated to the grain size.\par
down where such artefacts are well-known.86,175 The                 Hall\u8217?s explanation of the grain-size strengthening\par
metals have been grouped by crystal structure and                term in equation (1) relied on the concept of a dislo-\par
family in the periodic table. The range of grain sizes           cation pile-up against a grain boundary.1 According to\par
that have been investigated for each metal are also              his model, dislocations pile-up at grain boundaries in\par
included in Table 1. Values of Gb 1/2 and k/(Gb 1/2),            one grain and macroscopic yielding occurs when dislo-\par
where G is the shear modulus and b is the Burgers vec-           cations are emitted into the adjacent grain. This is poss-\par
tor, are listed in Table 1. The arithmetic mean and stan-        ible when the sum of the external stress and the stress at\par
dard deviation of k/(Gb 1/2) for each crystal structure          the head of the dislocation pile-up is larger than some\par
are shown as well.                                               threshold stress. The strength depends on grain size\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                        International Materials Reviews      2016      VOL   61   NO   8   497\par
Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
         3 Aggregated Hall\u8211?Petch data for each of the HCP metals as well as best \u64257?ts to the data using equation (1). The closed\par
           points indicate Vickers and nanoindentation hardness measurements that were divided by a Tabor factor of 3 while the\par
           open points indicate yield strengths measured using compression or tension tests. The references included in a\u8211?h are as\par
           follows: a 123\u8211?132; b 133\u8211?137; c 138; d 139\u8211?144; e 6,145\u8211?156; f 7,10,157\u8211?163; g 164\u8211?171 and h 172\u8211?174\par
\par
\par
         because the total pile-up length is limited by the grain           grain-size strengthening equation of the same basic\par
         size, which therefore limits the stress at the head of             form\par
         the pile-up. As a result, the pile-up model predicts a lin-\par
         ear relationship between the yield stress and the recipro-                         s = s0 + bGb1/2 D\u8722?1/2              (2)\par
         cal square root of the grain size. There are many\par
         variations on this same basic model that are summar-               where b is the magnitude of the Burgers vector, \u946? is a\par
         ized in a review by Li and Chou,9 but they all give a              model-dependent constant that is typically on the\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
498     International Materials Reviews         2016    VOL   61   NO   8\par
                                                                                             Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
Table 1. Summary of results from Hall\u8211?Petch studies on pure metals\par
\par
Crystal                             Dmin/                            K              Gb1/2\par
Structure    Element     Group      Dmax (\u181?m)      \u963?0 (MPa)      (MPa \u956?m1/2)     (MPa \u181?m1/2)       k/(Gb1/2) (\u8211?)       References\par
                                                                                                                       12\u8211?18\par
BCC             V           5       0.1/520          150             380              760          0.5\par
                                                                                                                       19\u8211?29\par
               Nb           5       0.1/610          120             340              630          0.5\par
                                                                                                                       14,30\u8211?37\par
               Ta           5       0.04/3900         80             760             1170          0.7\par
                                                                                                                       57,59,60\par
               Cr           6       0.02/1100        320             800             1820          0.4\par
                                                                                                                       61\u8211?66\par
               Mo           6       0.02/511         270             630             2070          0.3\par
                                                                                                                       67,68\par
               W            6       0.16/7           800            1000             2660          0.4\par
                                                                                                                       38\u8211?44,47,49\u8211?56\par
               Fe           8       0.009/2000       130             310             1290          0.2\par
                                                                                     MEAN          0.42 \u177? 0.07\par
                                                                                                                       96\u8211?104,106\par
FCC             Ni         10       0.01/460          80             230             1200          0.2\par
                                                                                                                       69,70,72,73,75,76,78,85\par
                Cu         11       0.005/320         40             110              770          0.1\par
                                                                                                                       87,88\par
                Ag         11       0.01/250          60             100              500          0.2\par
                                                                                                                       92\par
                Au         11       0.02/200         150              80              440          0.2\par
                                                                                                                       8,108\u8211?122\par
                Al         13       0.08/1200         10              90              440          0.2\par
                                                                                     MEAN          0.18 \u177? 0.02\par
                                                                                                                       6,145\u8211?154,156\par
HCP            Be           2       0.03/1100         80             720              680          1.1\par
                                                                                                                       10,157\u8211?163\par
               Mg           2       0.2/1000          70              90              100          0.9\par
                                                                                                                       123\u8211?126,128\u8211?132\par
               Ti           4       0.01/250         250             190              640          0.3\par
                                                                                                                       133\u8211?135\par
               Zr           4       0.4/1000         240             280              210          1.3\par
                                                                                                                       138\par
               Hf           4       35/130           100             350              320          1.1\par
                                                                                                                       139\u8211?144\par
               Co           9       0.012/4.8        260             140              380          0.4\par
                                                                                                                       164,165,168,171\par
               Zn          12       0.02/500          20             220              230          1.0\par
                                                                                                                       172\u8211?174\par
               Cd          12       28/1080            7             220              150          1.5\par
                                                                                     MEAN          0.9 \u177? 0.2\par
\par
\par
\par
order of 0.1, and the pre-factor bGb1/2 is equivalent to              Ashby\u8217?s theory of grain-size strengthening is another\par
k from equation (1); the values of k/(Gb 1/2) given in             work-hardening model, but it differs from the grain\par
Table 1 correspond to \u946?. The best \u64257?t results for the com-          boundary ledge model in that it tries to explain equation\par
piled data show that \u946? is between 0.1 and 0.7 for the              (1) by reconciling two sets of observations instead of\par
cubic metals, which is the same order of magnitude as              speculating about a speci\u64257?c mechanism. The \u64257?rst set of\par
predicted by the pile-up model. The data also show                 observations is that \u961? increases linearly with plastic strain\par
that \u946? depends on crystal structure (being on average              and inverse grain size during the uniform deformation of\par
0.18 for FCC, 0.42 for BCC and 0.9 for HCP metals)                 polycrystalline iron,38,191 vanadium,192 titanium,123 nio-\par
and Armstrong et al. demonstrated that the pile-up                 bium29 and aluminium.108 The second set of observations\par
model can be modi\u64257?ed to account for this.164                       is that even when a polycrystalline specimen is subjected\par
   Despite these successes, the pile-up model nonetheless          to macroscopically uniform plastic deformation, the indi-\par
suffers from several major de\u64257?ciencies, the most impor-            vidual grains still exhibit non-homogeneous plastic\par
tant of which is the lack of direct evidence relating the dis-     \u64258?ow.4,193,194 This non-uniform plastic \u64258?ow is due to com-\par
location pile-up length to the grain size.9,190 In addition,       patibility constraints at grain boundaries, which result in\par
the pile-up mechanism cannot account for k\u8217?s sensitivity           the activation of additional slip systems and the gener-\par
to the average grain boundary structure and chemistry,             ation of excess dislocations near grain boundaries.195 In\par
which was demonstrated by Floreen and Westbrook in                 the absence of such constraints, the individual grains in\par
experiments on sulphur-doped nickel.96 These issues                a polycrystal would simply shear on their glide planes\par
with the pile-up model motivated the development of an             with the largest critically resolved shear stresses.\par
alternative class of work-hardening models that assume                Ashby showed that these two sets of observations are in\par
grain boundaries in\u64258?uence the dislocation density, \u961?,              fact related by envisioning the deformation of a tensile\par
which in turn affects the \u64258?ow stress through the Taylor            specimen as a two-step process.185 In the \u64257?rst step, the\par
equation:                                                          grains undergo unconstrained, uniform deformation by\par
                                                                   shearing along their glide planes with the largest resolved\par
                                 \u8730?\par
                     s = s0 + aGb r                        (3)     shear stresses. During this \u64257?rst step, dislocations accumu-\par
                                                                   late through random trapping events just as in a uni-\par
where \u945? is a material-dependent constant.                          formly strained single crystal. The density of this group\par
   The \u64257?rst of these work-hardening models, developed by           of dislocations, \u961?SS, is in\u64258?uenced by the same material\par
Li, is based on the idea of grain boundary ledges that can         and testing parameters that affect the dislocation density\par
serve as dislocation sources at yielding.181 Li proposed           in a plastically strained single crystal, such as crystal\par
that the density of these ledges scales with the grain             structure, stacking fault energy (SFE) and homologous\par
boundary area per unit volume of material. As a result,            temperature. Since compatibility is not enforced during\par
more dislocation line length, and hence greater dislo-             this \u64257?rst step, voids and overlaps develop between adja-\par
cation densities, are generated in \u64257?ne-grained materials           cent grains, and the total amount of these defects per\par
when they yield. Li showed how this mechanism can                  grain is proportional to D 2\u949?/2 where \u949? is the macroscopic\par
give a grain-size strengthening relationship with the              plastic strain. In the second step, these voids and overlaps\par
same functional form as equation (1), but as with the              are removed by introducing dislocation arrays next to the\par
pile-up model, there is no direct evidence linking the den-        grain boundaries. The total dislocation line length that\par
sity of grain boundary ledges to that of dislocations.             must be generated in each grain to restore compatibility\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                           International Materials Reviews      2016         VOL   61    NO   8   499\par
500\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cordero et al.\par
International Materials Reviews\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                  Table 2. Summary of grain-size strengthening models\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
                                  Model                              Year                                Equation                                                                        Physics\par
\par
                                  Pile-up     Hall1                  1951   Equation (1)                                                    Grain boundaries (GBs) are obstacles preventing dislocation motion. Dislocations emit into\par
                                                                                                                                            adjacent grains when the shear stress at the head of a dislocation pile-up reaches some\par
                                                                                                                                            threshold value.\par
                                              Petch2                 1953   Equation (1)                                                    Same as above.\par
                                                                                        \par
                                              Cottrell176            1958                  l                                                Stresses generated by dislocation pile-ups in one grain activate Frank-Read sources in adjacent\par
                                                                            s = s0 + td       l = distance from GB to source                grains.\par
                                                                                          D\par
                                                                            \u964?d = unpinning stress\par
                                                                                             \par
                                              Armstrong et al. 164   1962                       l                                           Similar model to Cottrell\u8217?s but accounts for the fact that the dislocation source might be on a\par
                                                                            s = s0 + td m 2        m = Taylor orientation factor            different slip system than that of the dislocation pile-up. Accounts for the effect of crystal\par
                                                                                               D\par
2016\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                            structure on k through the Taylor factor, m.\par
                                                                                                 \par
                                              Smith and              1964                           l                                       Modi\u64257?ed version of Armstrong\u8217?s model. It can account for the effect of microtexture on the\par
                                              Worthington177                s = s0 + td m1 m2           m1 = macro-orientation factor       activation of dislocation sources.\par
                                                                                                   D\par
 VOL\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                            m2 = micro-orientation factor\par
                                                                                               \par
61\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                              Navarro and de los     1988             2td m 2 l \u8242?                                           Similar model to Cottrell\u8217?s but the dislocation source is assumed to extend over a \u64257?nite distance.\par
                                              Rios178                       s = s0 +                  l\u8217? = \u8216?effective position\u8217? of source\par
                                                                                        p         D\par
                                              Nazarov179                                                                                    GB \u64257?lm preventing dislocation motion is broken down when the shear stress at the head of a\par
 NO\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                     1996   See reference 179, equation (30).\par
                                                                                                                                            dislocation pile-up reaches some threshold value. After yielding, dislocations accumulate in the\par
8\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                            GB and strongly affect the strength of the GB \u64257?lm.\par
                                                                                      \par
                                              Friedman and           1998                     Gb x                                          Similar to the Cottrell model but dislocations can exert backstresses that make it more dif\u64257?cult for\par
                                              Chrzan180                     s = s0 +    t2d +       x = constant                            Frank-Read sources to operate.\par
                                                                                               pD\par
                                                                                            \par
                                  GB source   Li181                  1963                     3s                                            Dislocations generated from GBs at yielding strengthen the material through the Taylor\par
                                                                            s = s0 + aGb         s = line length of dislocation emitted     equation. The density of dislocations generated at yielding is proportional to the GB area\par
                                                                                              D\par
                                                                            per unit area of grain boundary \u945? = material-dependent          because the dislocations are generated at GB ledges.\par
                                                                            constant of order unity\par
                                              Bata and               2004   See reference 187, equation (32)                                Grain-size strengthening arises because of the work required to eject dislocations from GBs.\par
                                              Pereloma182                                                                                   Does not rely on the Taylor equation. See comments by Wert183 and Gavriljuk184.\par
                                                                                         \par
                                  GND         Ashby185               1970                  b1                                               Compatible deformation of individual grains in a polycrystal requires the introduction of\par
                                                                            s = s0 + CG        C = material-dependent constant              geometrically necessary dislocations (GND\u8217?s). Density of GND\u8217?s is inversely proportional to the\par
                                                                                            D\par
                                                                                                                                            grain size. GND\u8217?s affect the strength through the Taylor equation.\par
                                                                                                       \par
                                  Composite   Thompson et al. 186    1973                   lS K1       l S K2                              Treat the individual grains as composites with different dislocation densities in the grain interior\par
                                                                            s = s0 + 1 \u8722?              +         lS = statistical slip       and the region near the grain boundary. Dislocations affect the strength through the Taylor\par
                                                                                            D     D     D D\par
                                                                            length K1, K2 = constants                                       equation. The macroscopic \u64258?ow stress is the area average stress of the two regions.\par
                                              Meyers and             1982   See reference 187, equation (33)                                Elastic incompatibility leads to the generation of dislocations near the grain boundary at small\par
                                              Ashworth187                                                                                   strains. Treat grains at yielding as a composite with a work-hardened layer near the grain\par
                                                                                                                                            boundary.\par
                                                                                        \par
                                  Slip        Conrad188              1963                  b1                                               Assumes that the grain size affects the dislocation density, which affects the strength through\par
                                  distance                                  s = s0 + aG \u8730? 1 = strain                                     the Taylor equation; that dislocations are not annihilated during the early stages of plastic\par
                                                                                            D                                               straining; and that the dislocation slip distance is proportional to square root of the grain size.\par
                                                                                        \par
                                              Conrad et al. 29       1967                  b1                                               Similar to Conrad\u8217?s earlier model but assumes the slip distance is proportional to the grain size,\par
                                                                            s \u8776? s0 + aG                                                     not its square root.\par
                                                                                           D                      \par
                                              Meakin and             1974                               l              b1                   Combines the traditional pile-up model with the slip distance model due to Conrad.\par
                                              Petch189                      s = s0 + um 2 G1 + td m 2      + am 3/2 G       u = material-\par
                                                                                                       D               D\par
                                                                            dependent constant\par
                                                                                         Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
is approximately D 2\u949?/4b. Because the average volume per\par
grain is proportional to D3, the density of this second set\par
of dislocation is\par
                       rGN \u8776? 1/4Db                         (4)\par
This relationship has the same strain and grain-size\par
dependencies seen in experiments. Note that this second\par
set of dislocations is only introduced to ensure compatibil-\par
ity, so its density, to \u64257?rst order, is unaffected by the\par
material and testing parameters listed above.\par
   Ashby next showed how his model could explain the\par
Hall\u8211?Petch equation by combining his predictions about\par
the strain and grain-size dependence of the dislocation\par
density with the Taylor hardening equation. Assuming\par
for simplicity that the two groups of dislocations do not\par
interact, the total dislocation density is r = rGN + rSS.\par
Inserting this cumulative dislocation density into\par
equation (3) gives\par
                                 \par
                 s = s0 + aGb rGN + rSS                 (5)\par
which can be rewritten as\par
                              \par
                   s \u8776? s0 + aG b1/4D                       (6)\par
when rGN \u8811? rSS , as is likely the case for small plastic\par
strains.\par
   Comparing equations (1) and (6), we see that Ashby\u8217?s\par
model gives the correct reciprocal square root dependence\par
on grain size, but now the Hall\u8211?Petch\par
                                   \u8730?        coef\u64257?cient also\par
depends on plastic strain, k / 1. To test for this para-\par
bolic strain-dependence, several investigators have\par
measured k as a function of plastic strain, and the results\par
from these studies are shown in Fig. 4a\u8211?c. Here, the k\par
values have been normalized by Gb 1/2 for comparison\par
purposes.\par
   In most of the studies shown in Figs. 4a\u8211?c, k increased\par
with plastic strain, though there are some few anomalous\par
studies in which k decreased with plastic strain. These\par
include studies of the HCP metals titanium and zirco-\par
nium,124,133 FCC copper,70,85 as well as BCC iron.39\par
The k values of titanium and zirconium exhibit a similar\par
trend, \u64257?rst decreasing and then slightly increasing with\par
plastic strain. The most likely explanation for this initial\par
sharp decrease in k is that these metals deform by twin-\par
ning at small plastic strains and by dislocation glide at lar-\par
                                                                 4 k/(Gb1/2) as a function of plastic strain for several FCC,\par
ger plastic strains. This results in an apparent decrease in\par
                                                                   BCC and HCP metals\par
k because a metal typically has a larger Hall\u8211?Petch coef\u64257?-\par
cient when it deforms by twinning than when it deforms\par
by dislocation glide, as shown by Marcinkowski and\par
Lipsitt.59 The strain-dependence of copper\u8217?s k is the reverse    results in Fig. 4a\u8211?c exhibit the parabolic dependence on\par
of titanium\u8217?s and zirconium\u8217?s: its k initially increases and     strain predicted by Ashby. Instead, non-linear \u64257?ts to the\par
then decreases with plastic strain. Ono and Karashima            data in Fig. 4a\u8211?c suggest that the strain exponent in\par
directly linked this behaviour to the \u64257?ber-texture that can      equation (6) is closer to \u8764?0.2. One possible reason for\par
develop in recrystallized copper samples by performing           this discrepancy is that the strains at which k have histori-\par
tension tests on textured and texture-free samples.70            cally been measured are so large that the assumption\par
Finally, Jago and Hansen found that iron\u8217?s k decreases           rGN \u8811? rSS is no longer valid.\par
monotonically with plastic strain; however, these results           Many of the more recent models of grain-size strength-\par
have been contradicted by another study that showed              ening listed in Table 2 are based on Ashby\u8217?s concept of\par
iron\u8217?s k to increase slightly with plastic strain.39,40          geometrically necessary dislocations.186,187,196,197 These\par
   Thus, consistent with Ashby\u8217?s equation (6), the Hall\u8211?         models treat the individual grains as composites with\par
Petch coef\u64257?cients of most metals increase with plastic           grain boundary and grain interior regions that accumu-\par
strain, and for the studies that appear to contradict            late dislocations at different rates and have different\par
Ashby\u8217?s predictions, there are either physical explanations      strengths as a result. Typically, the macroscopic yield\par
or counterexamples. Despite this qualitative agreement           strength in these models is the average strength of these\par
between experiments and Ashby\u8217?s theory, none of the              two regions.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                       International Materials Reviews      2016      VOL   61   NO   8   501\par
Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
            Finally, the mean slip distance model, proposed by sev-               proposed by other investigators.201\u8211?204 In general, the lar-\par
         eral investigators,29,188,189 arrives at a relationship similar          gest deviations tend to be from materials for which data\par
         to equation (6) and predicts many of the same behaviours                 are more scarce or spans a more limited range of grain\par
         as Ashby\u8217?s framework, but it relies on a different set of                sizes, with three notable exceptions \u8211? Fe, Zn and Mg.\par
         assumptions: (1) that the average dislocation slip distance,             There also appear to be slight, systematic differences\par
         Lave, is proportional to the grain size, Lave = \u951?D, and (2)              between the average n values for the BCC (nave = \u8722?0.52\par
         that the dislocations generated during straining do not                  \u177? 0.09), FCC (nave = \u8722?0.40 \u177? 0.08) and HCP metals\par
         annihilate one another. This second assumption allows                    (nave = \u8722?0.29 \u177? 0.07), in line with Christman\u8217?s obser-\par
         the Orowan equation to be written as follows                             vations. Certainly this discussion serves to highlight the\par
                                                                                  need for more work examining the generality of the\par
                               r = 1/Lave b = 1/hDb                         (7)   exponent.\par
         Combining equations (3) and (7) gives the following                         The models described above explain how the grain size\par
         grain-size strengthening relationship                                    affects the strength, but much of the scatter in Figs. 1\u8211?3 is\par
                                                                         probably due to strengthening contributions that are not\par
                           s = s0 + aG 1b/hD                     (8)              directly related to grain size. These other strengthening\par
                                                                           increments are nominally included in the frictional stress,\par
         with k = aG 1b/h, similarly to the Ashby model. The                      \u963?0, and below room temperature, the terms that make up\par
         heterogeneous dislocation substructures seen in plasti-                  \u963?0 in a pure metal can be separated into two categories:\par
         cally deformed polycrystals seem to support the Ashby                    temperature-dependent and athermal. The temperature-\par
         model over the mean slip distance model.190,198                          dependent component of \u963?0 includes the Peierls\u8211?Nabarro\par
           All of the models described thus far predict a reciprocal              stress, which is negligible for FCC and HCP metals, but\par
         square root dependence on grain size, in agreement with                  can be quite large for BCC metals.205,206 The athermal\par
         the classic Hall\u8211?Petch equation; however, several investi-               components of \u963?0 include solid solution strengthening\par
         gators have suggested that the grain-size exponent should                and work-hardening. We consider work-hardening as\par
         be something other than \u8722?1/2.188,199\u8211?204 For example,                    approximately athermal because the strengthening incre-\par
         Christman \u64257?tted experimental grain-size strengthening                    ment from a given dislocation substructure is nearly inde-\par
         data using a power law of the form                                       pendent of temperature.\par
                                    s = s0 + kDn                            (9)      The contributions of the Peierls\u8211?Nabarro stress, solid\par
                                                                                  solution strengthening and work-hardening to \u963?0 are typi-\par
         where n, \u963?0 and k were all \u64257?tting parameters, and found                  cally assumed to be independent and additive:207\par
         that n was \u8722?1/3 for the FCC metals and varied between\par
         \u8722?1/2 and \u8722?0.9 for the BCC metals.200 Christman did\par
         not provide a physical explanation for these alternate                                  s0 = s0,PN + s0,SS + s0,WH                (10)\par
         grain-size dependences, but other researchers have. In an\par
         early version of the mean slip distance model, for\par
         instance, Conrad proposed that the mean slip distance                    Here the subscripts PN, SS and WH refer to Peierls\u8211?\par
         had a parabolic dependence on the grain size, which                      Nabarro, solid solution and work-hardening, respectively.\par
         gives n = \u8722?1/4 when combined with equations (3) and                      In addition, each strengthening mechanism\u8217?s contribution\par
         (7).188 Kocks204 and Hirth201 both described a composite                 to \u963?0 is approximately proportional to its contribution to\par
         model for which n = \u8722?1. And most recently, Dunstan and\par
         Bushby argued that n = \u8722?1 because the stress required to\par
         move a dislocation is related to its radius of curvature,\par
         which is limited by the grain size in a polycrystal.202\par
            To identify the grain-size exponent that best describes\par
         the experimental results, we \u64257?tted equation (9) to each\par
         metal\u8217?s aggregated grain-size strengthening data. We\par
         used a special \u64257?tting procedure to account for \u963?0\u8217?s sensi-\par
         tivity to differences in specimen preparation and charac-\par
         terization, which vary widely among the different\par
         studies: For a given metal, we \u64257?tted equation (9) to the\par
         results from each individual study, and treated n and k\par
         as global parameters that were same for all of the \u64257?ts,\par
         and \u963?0 as a local parameter that could be different for\par
         each \u64257?t. This procedure gives results like those shown in\par
         Fig. 5, which presents the grain-size strengthening data\par
         for Ni alongside the \u64257?ts to the individual datasets. Each\par
         of these curves was calculated using the same values of\par
         n (\u8722?0.39) and k (330 MPa \u956?m0.39), but a different value\par
         of \u963?0, which is why they are displaced from one another.\par
         We used this \u64257?tting procedure to calculate values of k\par
         and n for each of the metals, and the results are summar-\par
         ized in Table 3. Table 3 shows that while the n values range\par
         from \u8722?0.03 (Hf) to \u8722?0.95 (W), the average value is \u8722?0.40                 5 Aggregated grain-size strengthening data for Ni as well as\par
         \u177?0.05, which seems to support the classic Hall\u8211?Petch scal-                 best \u64257?ts using equation (9) to the results from the individ-\par
         ing, n = \u8722?1/2, over the n = \u8722?1 scaling that has been                       ual studies\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
502     International Materials Reviews         2016    VOL   61   NO   8\par
                                                                                        Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
the critical resolved shear stress of a single crystal:         BCC or HCP single crystals\u8217?.220 Figure 7b shows that\par
                                                                FCC metals with smaller stacking fault energies exhibit\par
                    s0,PN \u8776?Mave t0,PN                           greater increases in \u963?0/G at a given strain. Comparing\par
                     s0,SS \u8776?Mave t0,SS             (11a \u8722? c)    the results from tests performed at 77 K shown in Fig.\par
                    s0,WH \u8776?Mave t0,WH                           7c with those in Fig. 7b demonstrates that plastically\par
                                                                straining at lower testing temperatures can result in larger\par
where \u964?0,PN, \u964?0,SS and \u964?0,WH are the respective strengthening   increases in \u963?0/G at a given strain. These last two trends\par
increments in a single crystal from the Peierls\u8211?Nabarro         are evident in tests on FCC single crystals as well,\par
stress, solid solution strengthening and work-hardening,        where lower stacking fault energies and testing tempera-\par
and Mave is the Taylor factor.41,42,59,108,164 The Taylor       tures are known to increase the rate of work-hardening\par
factor accounts for the homogeneous deformation of the          by suppressing dynamic recovery.220,221\par
individual grains in a polycrystal.208                             The similar strain dependencies of \u963?0/G and \u964?0/G sup-\par
   We can evaluate the validity of equations (11a\u8211?c) by         port Ashby\u8217?s argument that dislocations can be divided\par
comparing the temperature and strain dependencies of            into two groups. One group consists of the statistically\par
\u963?0 with those of single crystal yield and \u64258?ow stresses.         stored dislocations that contribute to changes in \u963?0/G.\par
For instance, Fig. 6a, taken from the work by Marcin-           The density of these dislocations at a given strain is com-\par
kowski and Lipsitt,59 shows the \u963?0 and Mave\u964?0 of Fe as          parable to the dislocation density of a single crystal sub-\par
a function of temperature at constant strain, and illus-        jected to the same amount of uniform deformation and\par
trates how the datasets are very similar in magnitude           is strongly affected by variables such as crystal structure,\par
and form, in line with equation (11a). In Fig. 6b\u8211?e, we         SFE and temperature (cf. Fig. 6). The second group of\par
repeat the Marcinkowski\u8211?Lipsitt analysis for several            dislocations contains the excess dislocations that ensure\par
other BCC metals, plotting the \u963?0 and Mave\u964?0 as a func-         the compatible deformation of the individual grains in\par
tion of temperature at constant strain, and demonstrate         a polycrystal. And in the context of the Ashby model, it\par
that equation (11a) applies to these other metals as well.      is this second group that gives rise to grain-size\par
The outlying points in Fig. 6 can be explained when we          strengthening.\par
account for differences in sample purity and the contri-           Returning now to the aggregated grain-size strengthen-\par
bution of solid solution strengthening to \u963?0. For               ing results shown earlier, we can use the concepts just\par
example, in Fig. 6d, solid solution strengthening due           introduced to explain much of the scatter seen in this\par
to the large C concentration (1000 ppm) in Lindley              data. As an example, consider Fig. 8 which shows \u64257?ts\par
and Smallman\u8217?s vanadium specimens resulted in the               using equation (1) to the niobium yield stress data from\par
250 MPa offset of their results relative to the other           references [19,20,23,24,27,29]. The large offsets between\par
measurements.12                                                 the \u64257?ts in this \u64257?gure are primarily due to solid solution\par
   Figure 6 only shows data for BCC metals, as the              strengthening from interstitial contaminants whose con-\par
FCC and HCP metals do not have nearly as signi\u64257?cant             centration varied from study to study. To demonstrate\par
a volume of data to examine. Nonetheless, FCC metals            this, in Table 4 we compare each study\u8217?s \u963?0 with the\par
tend to exhibit the same trends, except the effect of           expected solid solution strengthening increment due to\par
temperature is much less dramatic than it is for BCC            their specimens\u8217? oxygen and nitrogen contents, \u963?SS. As\par
metals, which is expected given FCC metals\u8217? generally           Table 4 shows, the samples from reference [27] had the\par
weaker Peierls\u8211?Nabarro stresses. On average, the \u963?0             smallest solid solution strengthening increment, which is\par
and Mave\u964?0 of FCC metals increase at most just a few            why their \u963?0 is the smallest and their results sit well\par
dozen MPa on cooling from room temperature to\par
77 K.70,71,97,109 The HCP metals behave similarly to\par
the FCC metals, aside from anomalous reports of                 Table 3. n and k values from best \u64257?ts using equation (9) to\par
large increases in Zr\u8217?s \u963?0 on cooling by Coleman                         each metal\u8217?s aggregated grain-size strengthening\par
and Hardie133 and Ramani and Rodriguez,134 which                         data\par
may have been due to the onset of deformation\par
                                                                                         n                           k (MPa \u181?m\u8722?n)\par
twinning.\par
   Following Hansen,108 we illustrate the contribution of       V                      \u8722?0.47                                280\par
work-hardening to \u963?0 by plotting plastic strain against         Nb                     \u8722?0.54                                500\par
\u963?0/G, where G is the shear modulus, in Fig. 7a\u8211?c. In line       Ta                     \u8722?0.54                                260\par
with equation (11c), the increase in \u963?0/G with plastic          Cr                     \u8722?0.58                                650\par
strain seen in these \u64257?gures resembles the increase in \u964?0/G      Mo                     \u8722?0.32                               1420\par
                                                                W                      \u8722?0.95                                410\par
due to work-hardening during the axisymmetric defor-            Fe                     \u8722?0.29                                640\par
mation of single crystals.204 This effect of plastic strain     Ni                     \u8722?0.39                                330\par
on \u963?0/G was \u64257?rst observed in early Hall\u8211?Petch                   Cu                     \u8722?0.38                                160\par
studies;71,108 however, in the context of the present larger    Ag                     \u8722?0.17                                300\par
dataset, new trends in the plastic strain-dependence of         Au                     \u8722?0.47                                100\par
\u963?0/G become apparent. For example, closer inspection            Al                     \u8722?0.60                                100\par
                                                                Be                     \u8722?0.56                                870\par
of Fig. 7a\u8211?c reveals that material and testing parameters       Mg                     \u8722?0.21                                150\par
affect work-hardening\u8217?s contribution to \u963?0/G in the same        Ti                     \u8722?0.47                                210\par
way they in\u64258?uence its contribution to \u964?0/G. Comparison          Zr                     \u8722?0.19                                540\par
of Fig. 7a and 7b shows that \u963?0/G increases more rapidly        Hf                     \u8722?0.03                                800\par
with plastic strain in FCC metals than it does in BCC           Co                     \u8722?0.51                                100\par
metals. This is consistent with FCC single crystals\u8217?            Zn                     \u8722?0.15                                 80\par
                                                                Cd                     \u8722?0.17                                190\par
much greater normalized rates of work-hardening than\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                      International Materials Reviews      2016      VOL   61     NO   8   503\par
Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
         6 Testing temperature versus Mave\u964?0 from tension tests on single crystals and \u963?0 from \u64257?ts to yield stress measurements using\par
           the Hall\u8211?Petch equation. We used Mave = 2.7 which is appropriate for BCC polycrystals that exhibit pencil glide and have no\par
           texture.208 The close correspondence between Mave\u964?0 and \u963?0 supports equation (11a). The large and rapid increase in both\par
           Mave\u964?0 and \u963?0 with decreasing temperature re\u64258?ects the BCC metals\u8217? large, temperature-sensitive Peierls\u8211?Nabarro stress.\par
           The single crystal data in a\u8211?e are from the following references: a 209\u8211?212; b 213,214; c 215,216; d 217,218 and e 219\par
\par
\par
\par
         below the others in Fig. 8. By comparison, the other studies       strain, but it does contribute to the scatter in chromium\u8217?s\par
         used relatively impure samples, and the values in Table 4          grain-size strengthening data shown in Fig. 9. Here the\par
         show that for several of these other studies, their predicted      hardness measurements from reference [60] are offset\par
         solid solution strengthening increments can account for the        \u8764?200 MPa above the yield strength measurements from\par
         difference between their \u963?0 and that of reference [27].            reference [59], and this is because hardness measurements\par
            In the supplementary material, we provide a summary             include some plastic strain. Following Tabor, the Vickers\par
         of the experimental details from each of the Hall\u8211?Petch            hardness is equal to the \u64258?ow stress of a test specimen after\par
         studies cited herein. This table includes the specimen             it has been plastically strained an additional 8%.223 Work-\par
         purity, the processing techniques used to prepare the test         hardening due to this additional 8% plastic strain can\par
         specimens, the mechanical test method, and the technique           account for the \u8764?200 MPa difference between the hard-\par
         used to measure the grain size. This information can be            ness and yield strength data, as shown by Brittain\par
         used to explain some of the differences in \u963?0 among the            et al. 60 Such differences between hardness and yield\par
         various studies on a given metal.                                  strength measurements are seen in almost every metal\u8217?s\par
            Work-hardening is not important in Fig. 8 because the           grain-size strengthening data. The effect is most evident\par
         niobium results were all measured at the same plastic              among studies on coarse-grained metals because they\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
504     International Materials Reviews         2016    VOL   61   NO   8\par
                                                                                        Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                               8 Independent \u64257?ts using equation (1) to the niobium grain-size\par
                                                                 strengthening data from references [19,20,23,24,27,29]\par
\par
\par
                                                               work harden to a greater extent than ultra\u64257?ne grain or\par
                                                               nanocrystalline metals.\par
\par
\par
                                                               The Hall\u8211?Petch breakdown\par
                                                               For coarse-grained specimens, the preceding discussion\par
                                                               demonstrates that the grain-size strengthening increment\par
                                                               can be estimated using equation (1) and the constants in\par
                                                               Table 1, and that much of the variation among the differ-\par
                                                               ent studies can be explained by some combination of\par
                                                               specimen contamination and work-hardening effects.\par
                                                               However, data from a few of the datasets in Figs. 1\u8211?3\par
                                                               (most notably that for Zn and Cu) illustrate that simply\par
                                                               extrapolating the grain-size strengthening behaviour of\par
                                                               coarse-grained samples to nanocrystalline grain sizes\par
                                                               can result in errors: the strength measured in the \u64257?nest\par
                                                               grain-size specimens can be less than that expected.225,226\par
                                                               This apparent breakdown of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect has\par
                                                               been much discussed and debated, and it is clear that\par
                                                               many of the observations of lowered strength levels in\par
                                                               nanograined materials can be attributed to artefacts in\par
                                                               sample processing. At the same time, it is physically\par
                                                               reasonable that the Hall\u8211?Petch equation breaks down;\par
\par
\par
                                                               Table 4. Interstitial content and corresponding solid\par
                                                                        solution strengthening increment in the Nb studies\par
                                                                        shown in Figure 7. The solid solution strengthening\par
                                                                        increments for oxygen and nitrogen are 0.19 and\par
7 a Increase in several BCC metals\u8217? \u963?0/G with plastic strain            0.41 MPa/ppm, respectively224\par
  at room temperature. b, c Increase in several FCC metals\u8217?\par
  \u963?0/G with plastic strain at room temperature and 77 K,                      ppm by wt\par
                                                               References     O                N         s0,ss (MPa)        s0 (MPa)\par
  respectively. Note the close resemblance of these results\par
  to the increase in the \u64258?ow stress of single crystal test     27\par
                                                                                  120           13            30                 40\par
  specimens oriented for multislip during tension or com-      29\par
                                                                                   60           45            30                 60\par
                                                               24\par
  pression testing. The material and testing parameters                           200          200           120                130\par
                                                               19\par
  affecting the normalized rate of work-hardening of single                       550          120           160                150\par
                                                               20\par
  crystals \u8211? crystal structure, SFE,222 temperature \u8211? have                        400          100           120                170\par
                                                               23\par
                                                                                  185           57            60                150\par
  the same effect on \u963?0/G\u8217?s strain-dependence\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                     International Materials Reviews       2016      VOL   61    NO   8   505\par
Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
         for instance, if it did not, the yield strength of a tungsten      extent as grain size.48 There are, however, several systema-\par
         specimen with a grain size of 10 nm would be larger than           tic computational studies on pure metals that convin-\par
         tungsten\u8217?s theoretical yield strength, G/15 = 10 GPa.227           cingly demonstrate the in\u64258?ection of strength at a\par
            In-situ and ex-situ TEM investigations of plastic defor-        \u8216?strongest grain size.\u8217?241\u8211?244 The strength in\u64258?ection at\par
         mation in nanocrystalline nickel,228,229 copper,230,231            these \u64257?ne grain sizes is associated with a transition to\par
         gold,232 aluminium233 and platinum234 show a transition            intergranular deformation mechanisms dominating \u64258?ow.\par
         in the dislocation behaviour in very \u64257?ne-grained samples.          Reference [245] argues that these mechanisms are very\par
         These studies have shown that while there can be extensive         similar to those responsible for deformation in metallic\par
         dislocation activity in samples with grain sizes as small as       glasses, and shows that many unusual metal properties\par
         10 nm, dislocations do not accumulate in nanocrystalline           emerge at the \u64257?nest grain sizes that are consistent with\par
         metals as they do in coarse-grained samples. Instead, in           such a picture: a loss of rate sensitivity in FCC metals,\par
         nanocrystalline metals, dislocations emitted from one              the emergence of pressure sensitivity and a tendency for\par
         grain boundary are often rapidly absorbed by other                 shear localization are three features of glass plasticity\par
         grain boundaries after they traverse the grain interior.           that support the Hall\u8211?Petch breakdown as being re\u64258?ective\par
         Measurements showing a plateau or even a decrease in               of a cross-over to glass-like deformation physics in the\par
         the dislocation density at \u8764?100 nm suggest that this tran-         intergranular regions.\par
         sition in the dislocation behaviour may also contribute to            Many of the other models that have been developed to\par
         a lowering of the Hall\u8211?Petch slope at such grain                   explain the Hall\u8211?Petch breakdown are modi\u64257?ed versions\par
         sizes.235,236 In light of these results, it seems that the         of those originally developed to explain equation (1).\par
         strength of nanocrystalline metals is determined by the            For example, one class of models, based on the pile-up\par
         stress required to nucleate, propagate or reabsorb individ-        concept, assume that the Hall\u8211?Petch breakdown occurs\par
         ual dislocations, and this motivated the dislocation-              because either the grains in the nanocrystalline metals\par
         nucleation models of the Hall\u8211?Petch breakdown devel-               are too small to support a dislocation pile-up179,246,247\par
         oped by Asaro and co-workers,237\u8211?240 which are relevant            or the grain size affects the pile-up\u8217?s interactions with\par
         in the range of grain sizes down to perhaps \u8764?10 nm.                the grain boundaries.248 There are also modi\u64257?ed compo-\par
            At the \u64257?nest grain\u8217? sizes there is considerable evidence        site models in which the bulk material\u8217?s strength is\par
         that the Hall\u8211?Petch breakdown involves a weakening                 assumed to be the average of a weaker grain boundary\par
         effect as grain size is reduced beyond about 10\u8211?20 nm.             phase and a stronger grain interior phase,249\u8211?257 which\par
         The effect is most thoroughly experimentally established           is physically in line with the transition to intergranular\par
         on alloy systems in which such \u64257?ne grains can be stabil-           \u8216?glass-like\u8217? plasticity described above. More detailed com-\par
         ized, and experimental data on pure metals with grain              posite models account for additional microstructural\par
         sizes in this range are rare and not usually systematic. It        features including triple junctions and quadruple\par
         is the authors\u8217? opinion that conclusively demonstrating            nodes.258\u8211?261 One hypothesized reason the grain bound-\par
         the Hall\u8211?Petch breakdown by experiments on a pure                  aries appear weaker than the grain interior is that they\par
         metal will be dif\u64257?cult or even impossible, because of the          accelerate Coble creep processes;86,259,262,263 however,\par
         rapid grain growth in pure nanocrystalline metals at low           because these Coble creep models require strain rate sen-\par
         homologous temperatures, the possibility of grain growth           sitivities that are inconsistent with measured values, their\par
         during plastic deformation and the fact that grain bound-          validity has been questioned.264,265\par
         ary structure and state can affect strength to the same\par
                                                                            Summary and outlook\par
                                                                            In this work, we calculated best estimates of the pure\par
                                                                            metals\u8217? Hall\u8211?Petch parameters using the grain-size\par
                                                                            strengthening data accumulated over the past six decades.\par
                                                                            We also used these data to validate the Hall\u8211?Petch coef\u64257?-\par
                                                                            cient\u8217?s dependence on crystal structure, the similarities\par
                                                                            between the frictional stress and single crystal \u64258?ow stress\par
                                                                            and several other trends. Some of these trends are\par
                                                                            accounted for in the dislocation pile-up model of grain-\par
                                                                            size strengthening, but as we have noted, there is no direct\par
                                                                            evidence to support this model\u8217?s underlying assumption\par
                                                                            that the grain-size limits the size of dislocation pile-ups.\par
                                                                            Though the other explanations of grain-size strengthening\par
                                                                            that we summarized also have de\u64257?ciencies, Ashby\u8217?s\par
                                                                            geometrically necessary dislocation model appears to be\par
                                                                            the most consistent with the strain-dependence of the\par
                                                                            Hall\u8211?Petch coef\u64257?cient and with experimental obser-\par
                                                                            vations of the dislocation substructure in plastically\par
                                                                            deformed polycrystals with coarse grain sizes.\par
                                                                               Our compilation of grain-size strengthening measure-\par
                                                                            ments revealed several gaps in the open literature that\par
                                                                            should be addressed in future research. In addition to\par
         9 Chromium grain-size strengthening data from references           the obvious gaps related to, e.g., materials that have not\par
           [59,60] as well as best \u64257?ts using equation (1) to each           yet been studied, there is a dearth of accurate strength\par
           study\u8217?s data                                                     measurements on samples with sub-micron grain sizes,\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
506     International Materials Reviews         2016    VOL   61   NO   8\par
                                                                                          Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
which is in part due to the dif\u64257?culty of preparing bulk,       mechanical characterization and processing, and any\par
defect-free, nanocrystalline specimens for standard ten-       advances in understanding that are made through this\par
sion and compression testing. Recently, many of these          work will have a signi\u64257?cant impact on materials engineer-\par
processing challenges have been overcome,266,267 and           ing, since they will enable ever \u64257?ner control over the mech-\par
these advances in processing should enable more systema-       anical properties of metals.\par
tic investigations of grain-size strengthening in ultra\u64257?ne\par
and nanocrystalline metals.\par
   Future research on grain-size strengthening should also     Acknowledgements\par
address the relationship between grain-size strengthening      The authors acknowledge the partial support of several\par
and grain boundary structure. This includes detailed work      agencies in the development of this review, including the\par
on grain boundary crystallography and the sampling of          U.S. Army Research Of\u64257?ce under grant W911NF-14-1-\par
boundary crystallographic space in a polycrystal, as well      0539 and through the Institute for Soldier Nanotechnolo-\par
as details associated with the thermodynamics of interface     gies at MIT, as well as the U.S. National Science\par
structure, i.e., grain boundary complexion.268 While these     Foundation under grant CMMI-1332789.\par
topics have been actively studied in the grain boundary\par
community for many years, the connection between\par
boundary structure and grain-size scaling behaviour            References\par
remains fertile territory for future work. Such connections     1. E. O. Hall: \u8216?The deformation and ageing of mild steel: III discus-\par
would be especially relevant in materials with very \u64257?ne            sion of results\u8217?, Proc. Phys. Soc., Sect. B, 1951, 64, (9), 747\u8211?755.\par
grain sizes, where the grain boundaries themselves can          2. N. J. Petch: \u8216?The cleavage strength of polycrystals\u8217?, J. Iron Steel\par
accommodate plastic strain.                                        Inst., 1953, 174, (1), 25\u8211?28.\par
                                                                3. R. W. Armstrong: \u8216?The in\u64258?uence of polycrystal grain size on sev-\par
   Insight into the relationship between grain boundary\par
                                                                   eral mechanical properties of materials\u8217?, Metall. Mater. Trans.,\par
structure and strength may also come from studies on               1970, 1, (5), 1169\u8211?1176.\par
nanotwinned metals, which contain large populations of          4. N. Hansen: \u8216?Polycrystalline strengthening\u8217?, Metall. Trans. A, 1985,\par
coherent twin boundaries with much smaller excess ener-            16, (12), 2167\u8211?2190.\par
gies and free volumes than the high angle boundaries typi-      5. A. Lasalmonie and J. L. Strudel: \u8216?In\u64258?uence of grain size on the\par
                                                                   mechanical behaviour of some high strength materials\u8217?, J. Mater.\par
cally found in traditional nanocrystalline metals.222              Sci., 1986, 21, (6), 1837\u8211?1852.\par
Because nanotwinned and traditional nanocrystalline             6. E. D. Levine, J. P. Pemsler and S. H. Gelles: \u8216?Characteristics of vac-\par
metals have such disparate grain boundary structures,              uum-distilled beryllium\u8217?, J. Nucl. Mater., 1964, 12, (1), 40\u8211?49.\par
differences in their mechanical properties affected by          7. F. E. Hauser, P. R. Landon and J. E. Dorn: \u8216?Fracture of magnesium\par
                                                                   alloys at low temperature\u8217?, Trans. Am. Inst. Metall. Eng., 1956, 48,\par
grain boundary structure are maximized, and this\par
                                                                   (5), 589\u8211?593.\par
makes such properties easier to identify. For example,          8. F. Hultgren: \u8216?Grain boundary and substructure hardening in\par
initial studies comparing nanotwinned and nanocrystal-             aluminum\u8217?, Trans. Am. Inst. Metall. Eng., 1964, 230, (4), 898\u8211?903.\par
line copper found that nanotwinned copper\u8217?s yield               9. J. C. M. Li and Y. T. Chou: \u8216?The role of dislocations in the \u64258?ow\par
strength exhibits a Hall\u8211?Petch type dependence on the              stress grain size relationships\u8217?, Metall. Mater. Trans., 1970, 1, (5),\par
                                                                   1145\u8211?1159.\par
mean twin spacing with a frictional stress and Hall\u8211?           10. G. S. Rao and Y. V. R. K. Prasad: \u8216?Grain boundary strengthening\par
Petch coef\u64257?cient similar to those of nanocrystalline cop-          in strongly textured magnesium produced by hot rolling\u8217?, Metall.\par
per, but that nanotwinned copper work-hardens faster               Trans. A, 1982, 13, (12), 2219\u8211?2226.\par
than traditional nanocrystalline copper does.269,270           11. Y. Wang and H. Choo: \u8216?In\u64258?uence of texture on Hall\u8211?Petch\par
                                                                   relationships in an Mg alloy\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2014, 81, 83\u8211?97.\par
These results indicate that the effects of grain boundary\par
                                                               12. T. G. Lindley and R. E. Smallman: \u8216?The plastic deformation of\par
structure on mechanical properties can persist to large            polycrystalline vanadium at low temperatures\u8217?, Acta Metall.,\par
plastic strains, which is an unexpected \u64257?nding that should         1963, 11, (5), 361\u8211?371.\par
be further clari\u64257?ed.                                           13. M. A. Sherman and R. F. Bunshah: \u8216?Yield strength of \u64257?ne-grained\par
   Another topic that should be investigated in more               vanadium produced by high-rate physical vapor deposition\u8217?,\par
                                                                   J. Nucl. Mater., 1975, 57, (2), 151\u8211?154.\par
detail is the grain-size dependence of the yield stress of     14. A. F. Jankowski, J. Go and J. P. Hayes: \u8216?Thermal stability and\par
materials that mechanically twin. Several studies on               mechanical behavior of ultra-\u64257?ne bcc Ta and V coatings\u8217?, Surf.\par
BCC metals have shown that even when these materials               Coat. Tech., 2007, 202, (4), 957\u8211?961.\par
twin, their yield stress is still related to the grain size    15. Y. B. Chun, S. H. Ahn, D. H. Shin and S. K. Hwang: \u8216?Combined\par
                                                                   effects of grain size and recrystallization on the tensile properties\par
through equation (1).12,59 These studies have also estab-\par
                                                                   of cryorolled pure vanadium\u8217?, Mater. Sci. Eng.: A, 2009, 508, (1),\par
lished that, at a given temperature, the Hall\u8211?Petch coef\u64257?-         253\u8211?258.\par
cient for twinning can be up to an order of magnitude          16. G. Nouet and A. Deschanvres: \u8216?Relations entre les essais de duret\u233?\par
greater than the Hall\u8211?Petch coef\u64257?cient for dislocation             et de traction et la taille des grains dans le vanadium\u8217?, J. Less\par
glide.271 Explanations of these behaviours have been pro-          Common Met., 1974, 35, (1), 17\u8211?29.\par
                                                               17. D. H. Sherman, C. V. Owen and T. E. Scott: \u8216?The effect of hydrogen\par
posed that are based on the dislocation pile-up concept272         on the structure and properties of vanadium\u8217?, Trans. Am. Inst.\par
and the grain-size dependence of the twin morphology,129           Metall. Eng., 1969, 245, (6), 1367\u8211?1369.\par
but there is limited direct experimental validation of these   18. Q. Wei, T. Jiao, K. T. Ramesh and E. Ma: \u8216?Nano-structured\par
theories. Future work on this topic will be of engineering         vanadium: processing and mechanical properties under quasi-static\par
                                                                   and dynamic compression\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2004, 50, (3), 359\u8211?364.\par
value because it may help guide the design of microstruc-\par
                                                               19. Z. C. Szkopiak: \u8216?The Hall-Petch parameters of niobium deter-\par
tures that are more resistant to twinning and are therefore        mined by the grain size and extrapolation methods\u8217?, Mater. Sci.\par
more ductile.                                                      Eng., 1972, 9, (1), 7\u8211?13.\par
   Though the Hall\u8211?Petch equation has been investigated        20. A. T. Churchman: \u8216?Cleavage fracture in niobium\u8217?, J. Inst. Met.,\par
for over half a century \u8211? and grain-size strengthening for         1960, 88, 221\u8211?222.\par
                                                               21. E. N. Popova, V. V. Popov, E. P. Romanov and V. P. Pilyugin:\par
even longer \u8211? there are still many exciting and relatively         \u8216?Effect of the degree of deformation on the structure and thermal\par
unexplored avenues for future research. Work on these              stability of nanocrystalline niobium produced by high-pressure tor-\par
topics will bene\u64257?t from recent developments in imaging,            sion\u8217?, Phys. Met. Metall., 2007, 103, (4), 407\u8211?413.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                     International Materials Reviews          2016      VOL   61    NO   8   507\par
Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
          22. E. N. Popova, V. V. Popov, E. P. Romanov and V. P. Pilyugin:              52. D. Hull and I. L. Mogford: \u8216?Ductile-brittle transition in steels irra-\par
              \u8216?Thermal stability of nanocrystalline Nb produced by severe plastic           diated with neutrons\u8217?, Philos. Mag., 1958, 3, (35), 1213\u8211?1222.\par
              deformation\u8217?, Phys. Met. Metall., 2006, 101, (1), 52\u8211?57.                  53. T. D. Shen, R. B. Schwarz, S. Feng, J. G. Swadener, J. Y. Huang, M.\par
          23. P. R. V. Evans, A. F. Weinberg and R. J. Van Thyne: \u8216?Irradiation              Tang, J. Zhang, S. C. Vogel and Y. Zhao: \u8216?Effect of solute segre-\par
              hardening in columbium\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1963, 11, (2), 143\u8211?150.                gation on the strength of nanocrystalline alloys: inverse Hall\u8211?\par
          24. B. A. Wilcox and R. A. Huggins: \u8216?Effect of hydrogen on dislocation            Petch relation\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2007, 55, (15), 5007\u8211?5013.\par
              locking in niobium\u8217?, J. Less Common Met., 1960, 2, (2), 292\u8211?303.          54. J. B. Savader, M. R. Scanlon, R. C. Cammarata, D. T. Smith and C.\par
          25. M. A. Adams, A. C. Roberts and R. E. Smallman: \u8216?Yield and frac-               Hayzelden: \u8216?Nanoindentation study of sputtered nanocrystalline\par
              ture in polycrystalline niobium\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1960, 8, (5), 328\u8211?            iron thin \u64257?lms\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 1997, 36, (1), 29\u8211?34.\par
              337.                                                                      55. W. B. Morrison: \u8216?The effect of grain size on the stress-strain\par
          26. A. A. Johnson: \u8216?The low temperature tensile properties of nio-                relationship in low-carbon steel\u8217?, Trans. Am. Soc. Metall., 1966,\par
              bium\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1960, 8, (10), 737\u8211?740.                                  59, (4), 824\u8211?846.\par
          27. A. M. Omar and A. R. Entwisle: \u8216?The effect of grain size on the           56. S. Gao, M. Chen, M. Joshi, A. Shibata and N. Tsuji: \u8216?Yielding\par
              deformation of niobium\u8217?, Mater. Sci. Eng., 1970, 5, (5), 263\u8211?270.             behavior and its effect on uniform elongation in IF steel with var-\par
          28. V. V. Popov, E. N. Popova, A. V. Stolbovskii, V. P. Pilyugin and N.           ious grain sizes\u8217?, J. Mater. Sci., 2014, 49, (19), 6536\u8211?6542.\par
              K. Arkhipova: \u8216?Nanostructurization of Nb by high-pressure tor-            57. V. Provenzano, R. Valiev, D. G. Rickerby and G. Valdre:\par
              sion in liquid nitrogen and the thermal stability of the structure            \u8216?Mechanical properties of nanostructured chromium\u8217?, Nanostruc.\par
              obtained\u8217?, Phys. Met. Metall., 2012, 113, (3), 295\u8211?301.                       Mater., 1999, 12, (5), 1103\u8211?1108.\par
          29. H. Conrad, S. Feuerstein and L. Rice: \u8216?Effects of grain size on the       58. D. Wu, J. Zhang, J. C. Huang, H. Bei and T. Nieh: \u8216?Grain-bound-\par
              dislocation density and \u64258?ow stress of niobium\u8217?, Mater. Sci. Eng.,             ary strengthening in nanocrystalline chromium and the Hall\u8211?Petch\par
              1967, 2, (3), 157\u8211?168.                                                        coef\u64257?cient of body-centered cubic metals\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2013,\par
          30. A. F. Jankowski, J. P. Hayes and C. K. Saw: \u8216?Dimensional attri-               68, (2), 118\u8211?121.\par
              butes in enhanced hardness of nanocrystalline Ta\u8211?V nanolami-              59. M. J. Marcinkowski and H. A. Lipsitt: \u8216?The plastic deformation of\par
              nates\u8217?, Philos. Mag., 2007, 87, (16), 2323\u8211?2334.                              chromium at low temperatures\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1962, 10, (2), 95\u8211?111.\par
          31. R. C. Koo: \u8216?Grain-size effects on the deformation of tantalum at          60. C. P. Brittain, R. W. Armstrong and G. C. Smith: \u8216?Hall-petch\par
              low temperatures\u8217?, J. Less Common Met., 1962, 4, (2), 138\u8211?144.                dependence for ultra\u64257?ne grain size electrodeposited chromium\u8217?,\par
          32. M. A. Adams and A. Iannucci, \u8216?The mechanical properties of tan-               Scripta Metall., 1985, 19, (1), 89\u8211?91.\par
              talum with special reference to the ductile-brittle transition\u8217?,          61. A. A. Johnson: \u8216?The effect of grain size on the tensile properties of\par
              (ed. M. R. Corp), 1961, Yonkers, NY, Materials Research Corporation.          high-purity molybdenum at room temperature\u8217?, Philos. Mag.,\par
          33. K. T. Hartwig, S. N. Mathaudhu, H. J. Maier and I. Karaman:                   1959, 4, (38), 194\u8211?199.\par
              \u8216?Hardness and microstructure changes in severely deformed and             62. A. S. Wronski and A. A. Johnson: \u8216?The deformation and fracture\par
              recrystallized tantalum\u8217?, 2nd Int. Symp. on Ultra\u64257?ne Grained                  properties of polycrystalline molybdenum\u8217?, Philos. Mag., 1962, 7,\par
              Materials, Seattle, WA, 2002, 151\u8211?160.                                        (74), 213\u8211?227.\par
          34. S. N. Mathaudhu and K. T. Hartwig: \u8216?Grain re\u64257?nement and recrys-           63. M. A. Sherman, R. F. Bunshah and H. A. Beale: \u8216?High-rate phys-\par
              tallization of heavily worked tantalum\u8217?, Mater. Sci. Eng.: A, 2006,           ical vapor deposition of refractory metals\u8217?, J. Vac. Sci. Tech., 1975,\par
              426, (1), 128\u8211?142.                                                            12, (3), 697\u8211?703.\par
          35. M. Zhang, B. Yang, J. Chu and T. G. Nieh: \u8216?Hardness enhance-              64. C. M. McNally, W. H. Kao and T. G. Nieh: \u8216?The effect of potass-\par
              ment in nanocrystalline tantalum thin \u64257?lms\u8217?, Scripta Mater.,                  ium doping on the strength of molybdenum\u8217?, Scripta Metall., 1988,\par
              2006, 54, (7), 1227\u8211?1230.                                                     22, (12), 1847\u8211?1850.\par
          36. H. L. Sun and M. Wei: \u8216?Microstructure and nanoindentation hard-           65. K. B. Yoder, A. A. El-Mustafa, J. C. Lin, R. A. Hoffman and D. S.\par
              ness of sputter deposited nanocrystalline tantalum thin \u64257?lms\u8217?, Adv.           Stone: \u8216?Activation analysis of deformation in evaporated molyb-\par
              Mater. Res., 2011, Trans Tech Publ, 311, 1810\u8211?1813.                           denum thin \u64257?lms\u8217?, J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys., 2003, 36, (7), 884.\par
          37. G. Guisbiers, E. Herth, L. Buchaillot and T. Pardoen: \u8216?Fracture           66. A. G. Imgram, J. W. Spretnak and H. R. Ogden: \u8216?Effect of metal-\par
              toughness, hardness, and Young\u8217?s modulus of tantalum nanocrys-                lurgical structure on the tensile and notch-tensile properties of mol-\par
              talline \u64257?lms\u8217?, Appl. Phys. Let., 2010, 97, (14), 143115.                      ybdenum and Mo-0.5Ti\u8217?, Trans. Am. Inst. Metall. Eng., 1964, 230,\par
          38. D. J. Dingley and D. McLean: \u8216?Components of the \u64258?ow stress of                 1345\u8211?1352.\par
              iron\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1967, 15, (5), 885\u8211?901.                              67. E. S. Meieran and D. A. Thomas: \u8216?Structure of drawn and\par
          39. R. A. Jago and N. Hansen: \u8216?Grain size effects in the deformation of           annealed tungsten wire\u8217?, Trans. Am. Inst. Metall. Eng., 1965,\par
              polycrystalline iron\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1986, 34, (9), 1711\u8211?1720.                233, 937\u8211?943.\par
          40. H. H. Tjerkstra: \u8216?The effect of grain size on the stress-strain curve     68. U. K. Vashi, R. W. Armstrong and G. E. Zima: \u8216?The hardness and\par
              of alpha-iron and the connection with the plastic deformation of              grain size of consolidated \u64257?ne tungsten powder\u8217?, Metall. Trans.,\par
              the grain boundaries\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1961, 9, (4), 259\u8211?263.                   1970, 1, (6), 1769\u8211?1771.\par
          41. I. Codd and N. J. Petch: \u8216?Dislocation-locking by carbon, nitrogen         69. A. W. Thompson and W. A. Backofen: \u8216?Production and mechanical\par
              and boron in \u945?-iron\u8217?, Philos. Mag., 1960, 5, (49), 30\u8211?42.                     behavior of very \u64257?ne-grained copper\u8217?, Metall. Trans., 1971, 2, (7),\par
          42. A. Cracknell and N. J. Petch: \u8216?Frictional forces on dislocation               2004\u8211?2005.\par
              arrays at the lower yield point in iron\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1955, 3, (2),     70. N. Ono and S. Karashima: \u8216?Grain size dependence of \u64258?ow stress in\par
              186\u8211?189.                                                                      copper polycrystals\u8217?, Scripta Metall., 1982, 16, (4), 381\u8211?384.\par
          43. J. Heslop and N. J. Petch: \u8216?The stress to move a free dislocation in      71. N. Hansen and B. Ralph: \u8216?The strain and grain size dependence of\par
              alpha iron\u8217?, Philos. Mag., 1956, 47, (9), 866\u8211?873.                            the \u64258?ow stress of copper\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1982, 30, (2), 411\u8211?417.\par
          44. N. J. Petch: \u8216?The ductile-brittle transition in the fracture of \u945?-iron:   72. P. Feltham and J. D. Meakin: \u8216?On the mechanism of work harden-\par
              I\u8217?, Philos. Mag., 1958, 3, (34), 1089\u8211?1097.                                   ing in face-centred cubic metals, with special reference to polycrys-\par
          45. H. Conrad and G. Schoeck: \u8216?Cottrell locking and the \u64258?ow stress in             talline copper\u8217?, Philos. Mag., 1957, 2, (13), 105\u8211?112.\par
              iron\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1960, 8, (11), 791\u8211?796.                              73. M. D. Merz and S. D. Dahlgren: \u8216?Tensile strength and work hard-\par
          46. J. S. C. Jang and C. C. Koch: \u8216?The Hall-Petch relationship in nano-           ening of ultra\u64257?ne-grained high-purity copper\u8217?, J. Appl. Phys., 1975,\par
              crystalline iron produced by ball milling\u8217?, Scripta Metall. Mater.,           46, (8), 3235\u8211?3237.\par
              1990, 24, (8), 1599\u8211?1604.                                                 74. P. G. Sanders, J. A. Eastman and J. R. Weertman: \u8216?Elastic and ten-\par
          47. T. R. Malow and C. C. Koch: \u8216?Mechanical properties, ductility, and            sile behavior of nanocrystalline copper and palladium\u8217?, Acta\par
              grain size of nanocrystalline iron produced by mechanical attri-              Mater., 1997, 45, (10), 4019\u8211?4025.\par
              tion\u8217?, Metall. Mater. Trans. A, 1998, 29, (9), 2285\u8211?2295.                 75. C. J. Youngdahl, P. G. Sanders, J. A. Eastman and J. R. Weertman:\par
          48. D. Jang and M. Atzmon: \u8216?Grain-size dependence of plastic defor-               \u8216?Compressive yield strengths of nanocrystalline Cu and Pd\u8217?,\par
              mation in nanocrystalline Fe\u8217?, J. Appl. Phys., 2003, 93, (11), 9282\u8211?          Scripta Mater., 1997, 37, (6), 809\u8211?813.\par
              9286.                                                                     76. J. Chen, L. Lu and K. Lu: \u8216?Hardness and strain rate sensitivity of\par
          49. M. M. Hutchison: \u8216?The temperature dependence of the yield stress              nanocrystalline Cu\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2006, 54, (11), 1913\u8211?1918.\par
              of polycrystalline iron\u8217?, Philos. Mag., 1963, 8, (85), 121\u8211?127.           77. A. S. Khan, B. Farrokh and L. Takacs: \u8216?Compressive properties of\par
          50. E. Anderson, D. Law, W. King and J. Spreadborough: \u8216?The                       Cu with different grain sizes: sub-micron to nanometer realm\u8217?,\par
              relationship between lower yield stress and grain size in Armco               J. Mater. Sci., 2008, 43, (9), 3305\u8211?3313.\par
              iron\u8217?, Trans. Am. Inst. Metall. Eng., 1968, 242, (1), 115\u8211?119.            78. R. P. Carreker and W. R. Hibbard: \u8216?Tensile deformation of high-\par
          51. J. F. Butler: \u8216?L\u252?ders front propagation in low carbon steels\u8217?,                purity copper as a function of temperature, strain rate and grain\par
              J. Mech. Phys. Sol., 1962, 10, (4), 313\u8211?318.                                  size\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1953, 1, (6), 654\u8211?663.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
508     International Materials Reviews           2016      VOL   61    NO   8\par
                                                                                                          Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
 79. G. W. Nieman, J. R. Weertman and R. W. Siegel: \u8216?Mechanical              105. A. Godon, J. Creus, S. Cohendoz, E. Conforto, X. Feaugas, P.\par
     behavior of nanocrystalline Cu and Pd\u8217?, J. Mater. Res., 1991, 6,             Girault and C. Savall: \u8216?Effects of grain orientation on the Hall\u8211?\par
     (5), 1012\u8211?1027.                                                              Petch relationship in electrodeposited nickel with nanocrystalline\par
 80. G. E. Fougere, J. R. Weertman, R. W. Siegel and S. Kim: \u8216?Grain-              grains\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2010, 62, (6), 403\u8211?406.\par
     size dependent hardening and softening of nanocrystalline Cu            106. C. A. Schuh, T. G. Nieh and T. Yamasaki: \u8216?Hall\u8211?Petch breakdown\par
     and Pd\u8217?, Scripta Metall. Mater., 1992, 26, (12), 1879\u8211?1883.                  manifested in abrasive wear resistance of nanocrystalline nickel\u8217?,\par
 81. V. Y. Gertsman, M. Hoffmann, H. Gleiter and R. Birringer: \u8216?The               Scripta Mater., 2002, 46, (10), 735\u8211?740.\par
     study of grain size dependence of yield stress of copper for a          107. J. A. Knapp and D. M. Follstaedt: \u8216?Hall\u8211?Petch relationship in\par
     wide grain size range\u8217?, Acta Metall. Mater., 1994, 42, (10), 3539\u8211?           pulsed-laser deposited nickel \u64257?lms\u8217?, J. Mater. Res., 2004, 19, (1),\par
     3544.                                                                        218\u8211?227.\par
 82. M. Hakamada, Y. Nakamoto, H. Matsumoto, H. Iwasaki, Y.                  108. N. Hansen: \u8216?The effect of grain size and strain on the tensile \u64258?ow\par
     Chen, H. Kusuda and M. Mabuchi: \u8216?Relationship between hard-                  stress of aluminium at room temperature\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1977,\par
     ness and grain size in electrodeposited copper \u64257?lms\u8217?, Mater. Sci.            25, (8), 863\u8211?869.\par
     Eng.: A, 2007, 457, (1), 120\u8211?126.                                       109. H. Fujita and T. Tabata: \u8216?The effect of grain size and deformation\par
 83. R. Suryanarayanan, C. A. Frey, S. M. L. Sastry, B. E. Waller, S. E.          sub-structure on mechanical properties of polycrystalline alumi-\par
     Bates and W. E. Buhro: \u8216?Mechanical properties of nanocrystalline             num\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1973, 21, (4), 355\u8211?365.\par
     copper produced by solution-phase synthesis\u8217?, J. Mater. Res., 1996,     110. N. Hansen: \u8216?Effect of grain size on the mechanical properties of\par
     11, (2), 439\u8211?448.                                                            dipersion-strengthened aluminium aluminium-oxide products\u8217?,\par
 84. H. Jiang, Y. T. Zhu, D. P. Butt, I. V. Alexandrov and T. C. Lowe:            Trans. Am. Inst. Metall. Eng., 1969, 245, (6), 1305\u8211?1312.\par
     \u8216?Microstructural evolution, microhardness and thermal stability         111. J. W. Wyrzykowski and M. W. Grabski: \u8216?Effect of annealing temp-\par
     of HPT-processed Cu\u8217?, Mater. Sci. Eng.: A, 2000, 290, (1), 128\u8211?              erature on structure and properties of \u64257?ne-grained aluminium\u8217?,\par
     138.                                                                         Met. Sci., 1983, 17, (9), 445\u8211?450.\par
 85. A. W. Thompson and M. I. Baskes: \u8216?The in\u64258?uence of grain size on         112. J. T. Al-Haidary, N. J. Petch and E. R. De Los Rios: \u8216?The plastic\par
     the work hardening of face-center cubic polycrystals\u8217?, Philos. Mag.,         deformation of polycrystals I. Aluminium between room tempera-\par
     1973, 28, (2), 301\u8211?308.                                                      ture and 400\u176? C\u8217?, Philos. Mag. A, 1983, 47, (6), 869\u8211?890.\par
 86. A. H. Chokshi, A. Rosen, J. Karch and H. Gleiter: \u8216?On the validity      113. E. Bonetti, L. Pasquini and E. Sampaolesi: \u8216?The in\u64258?uence of grain\par
     of the Hall-Petch relationship in nanocrystalline materials\u8217?, Scripta        size on the mechanical properties of nanocrystalline aluminium\u8217?,\par
     Metall., 1989, 23, (10), 1679\u8211?1683.                                          Nanostruc. Mater., 1997, 9, (1), 611\u8211?614.\par
 87. J. W. Aldrich and R. W. Armstrong: \u8216?The grain size dependence of        114. N. Tsuji, Y. Ito, Y. Saito and Y. Minamino: \u8216?Strength and ductility\par
     the yield, \u64258?ow and fracture stress of commercial purity silver\u8217?,             of ultra\u64257?ne grained aluminum and iron produced by ARB and\par
     Metall. Trans., 1970, 1, (9), 2547\u8211?2550.                                     annealing\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2002, 47, (12), 893\u8211?899.\par
 88. N. P. Kobelev, Y. M. Soifer, R. A. Andrievski and B. Gunther:           115. Y. S. Sato, M. Urata, H. Kokawa and K. Ikeda: \u8216?Hall\u8211?Petch\par
     \u8216?Microhardness and elastic properties of nanocrystalline silver\u8217?,            relationship in friction stir welds of equal channel angular-pressed\par
     Nanostruc. Mater., 1993, 2, (5), 537\u8211?544.                                    aluminium alloys\u8217?, Mater. Sci. Eng.: A, 2003, 354, (1), 298\u8211?305.\par
 89. X. Y. Qin, X. J. Wu and L. D. Zhang: \u8216?The microhardness of nano-        116. R. W. Hayes, D. Witkin, F. Zhou and E. Lavernia: \u8216?Deformation\par
     crystalline silver\u8217?, Nanostruc. Mater., 1995, 5, (1), 101\u8211?110.               and activation volumes of cryomilled ultra\u64257?ne-grained aluminum\u8217?,\par
 90. R. P. Carreker: \u8216?Tensile deformation of silver as a function of temp-        Acta Mater., 2004, 52, (14), 4259\u8211?4271.\par
     erature, strain rate and grain size\u8217?, Trans. Am. Inst. Metall. Eng.,    117. C. Y. Yu, P. W. Kao and C. P. Chang: \u8216?Transition of tensile defor-\par
     1957, 209, 112\u8211?115.                                                          mation behaviors in ultra\u64257?ne-grained aluminum\u8217?, Acta Mater.,\par
 91. T. Kizuka, H. Ichinose and Y. Ishida: \u8216?Structure and hardness of             2005, 53, (15), 4019\u8211?4028.\par
     nanocrystalline silver\u8217?, J. Mater. Sci., 1997, 32, (6), 1501\u8211?1507.      118. A. S. Khan, B. Farrokh and L. Takacs: \u8216?Effect of grain re\u64257?nement\par
 92. C. C. Lo, J. A. Augis and M. R. Pinnel: \u8216?Hardening mechanisms of             on mechanical properties of ball-milled bulk aluminum\u8217?, Mater.\par
     hard gold\u8217?, J. Appl. Phys., 1979, 50, (11), 6887\u8211?6891.                       Sci. Eng.: A, 2008, 489, (1), 77\u8211?84.\par
 93. S. Sakai, H. Tanimoto and H. Mizubayashi: \u8216?Mechanical behavior          119. A. S. Khan, Y. S. Suh, X. Chen, L. Takacs and H. Zhang:\par
     of high-density nanocrystalline gold prepared by gas deposition              \u8216?Nanocrystalline aluminum and iron: mechanical behavior at\par
     method\u8217?, Acta Mater., 1998, 47, (1), 211\u8211?217.                                quasi-static and high strain rates and constitutive modeling\u8217?,\par
 94. R. D. Emery and G. L. Povirk: \u8216?Tensile behavior of free-standing             Int. J. Plast., 2006, 22, (2), 195\u8211?209.\par
     gold \u64257?lms. Part II. Fine-grained \u64257?lms\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2003, 51,          120. K. Maung, J. C. Earthman and F. A. Mohamed: \u8216?Inverse Hall\u8211?\par
     (7), 2079\u8211?2087.                                                              Petch behavior in diamantane stabilized bulk nanocrystalline\par
 95. Y. M. Wang, A. F. Jankowski and A. V. Hamza: \u8216?Strength and ther-             aluminum\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2012, 60, (16), 5850\u8211?5857.\par
     mal stability of nanocrystalline gold alloys\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2007,    121. R. Carreker and W. Hibbard: \u8216?Tensile deformation of aluminum as\par
     57, (4), 301\u8211?304.                                                            a function of temperature, strain rate, and grain size\u8217?, Trans. Am.\par
 96. S. Floreen and J. H. Westbrook: \u8216?Grain boundary segregation and              Inst. Metall. Eng., 1957, 209, 1157\u8211?1163.\par
     the grain size dependence of strength of nickel-sulfur alloys\u8217?, Acta    122. P. L. Sun, E. K. Cerreta, G. T. Gray III and J. F. Bingert: \u8216?The effect\par
     Metall., 1969, 17, (9), 1175\u8211?1181.                                           of grain size, strain rate, and temperature on the mechanical behav-\par
 97. D. E. Sonon and G. V. Smith: \u8216?Effect of grain size and temperature           ior of commercial purity aluminum\u8217?, Metall. Mater. Trans. A,\par
     on the strengthening of nickel and a nickel-cobalt alloy by carbon\u8217?,         2006, 37, (10), 2983\u8211?2994.\par
     Trans. Am. Inst. Metall. Eng., 1968, 242, (8), 1527\u8211?1533.               123. R. L. Jones and H. Conrad: \u8216?The effect of grain size on the strength\par
 98. Y. Nakada and A. S. Keh: \u8216?Solid-solution strengthening in Ni-C               of alpha-titanium at room temperature\u8217?, Trans. Am. Inst. Metall.\par
     alloys\u8217?, Metall. Trans., 1971, 2, (2), 441\u8211?447.                              Eng., 1969, 245, (4), 779\u8211?789.\par
 99. B. A. Wilcox and A. H. Clauer: \u8216?The role of grain size and shape in     124. R. J. Lederich, S. M. L. Sastry, J. E. O\u8217?Neal and B. B. Rath: \u8216?The\par
     strengthening of dispersion hardened nickel alloys\u8217?, Acta Metall.,           effect of grain size on yield stress and work hardening of polycrys-\par
     1972, 20, (5), 743\u8211?757.                                                      talline titanium at 295 K and 575 K\u8217?, Mater. Sci. Eng., 1978, 33,\par
100. A. W. Thompson: \u8216?Yielding in nickel as a function of grain or cell           (2), 183\u8211?188.\par
     size\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1975, 23, (11), 1337\u8211?1342.                         125. K. Y. Wang, T. D. Shen, M. X. Quan and W. D. Wei: \u8216?Hall-Petch\par
101. G. D. Hughes, S. D. Smith, C. S. Pande, H. R. Johnson and R. W.              relationship in nanocrystalline titanium produced by ball-milling\u8217?,\par
     Armstrong: \u8216?Hall-Petch strengthening for the microhardness of                J. Mater. Sci. Let., 1993, 12, (23), 1818\u8211?1820.\par
     twelve nanometer grain diameter electrodeposited nickel\u8217?, Scripta       126. A. A. Popov, I. Y. Pyshmintsev, S. L. Demakov, A. G. Illarionov, T.\par
     Metall., 1986, 20, (1), 93\u8211?97.                                               C. Lowe, A. V. Sergeyeva and R. Z. Valiev: \u8216?Structural and mech-\par
102. A. M. El-Sherik, U. Erb, G. Palumbo and K. T. Aust: \u8216?Deviations              anical properties of nanocrystalleve titanium processed by severe\par
     from Hall-Petch behaviour in as-prepared nanocrystalline nickel\u8217?,            plastic deformation\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 1997, 37, (7), 1089\u8211?1094.\par
     Scripta Metall. Mater., 1992, 27, (9), 1185\u8211?1188.                       127. A. V. Sergueeva, V. V. Stolyarov, R. Z. Valiev and A. K. Mukherjee:\par
103. F. Ebrahimi, G. R. Bourne, M. S. Kelly and T. E. Matthews:                   \u8216?Advanced mechanical properties of pure titanium with ultra\u64257?ne\par
     \u8216?Mechanical properties of nanocrystalline nickel produced by elec-           grained structure\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2001, 45, (7), 747\u8211?752.\par
     trodeposition\u8217?, Nanostruc. Mater., 1999, 11, (3), 343\u8211?350.              128. C. Y. Hyun, J. H. Lee and H. K. Kim: \u8216?Microstructures and mech-\par
104. M. von Heimendahl and G. Thomas: \u8216?Substructure and mechan-                   anical properties of ultra\u64257?ne grained pure Ti produced by severe\par
     ical properties of TD-nickel\u8217?, Trans. Am. Inst. Metall. Eng., 1964,          plastic deformation\u8217?, Res. Chem. Intermediates, 2010, 36, (6),\par
     230, (7), 1520\u8211?1528.                                                         629\u8211?638.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                    International Materials Reviews           2016      VOL   61    NO   8   509\par
Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
         129. A. Ghaderi and M. R. Barnett: \u8216?Sensitivity of deformation twin-           154. F. Aldinger, E. Gold and G. Petzow: \u8216?Effects of oxide and grain size\par
              ning to grain size in titanium and magnesium\u8217?, Acta Mater.,                    in high-purity beryllium\u8217?, Fourth Int. Conf. on Beryllium, London,\par
              2011, 59, (20), 7824\u8211?7839.                                                     UK, 1977.\par
         130. F. C. Holden, H. R. Ogden and R. I. Jaffee: \u8216?Microstructure and           155. A. F. Jankowski, M. A. Wall, A. W. Van Buuren, T. G. Nieh and J.\par
              mechanical properties of iodide titanium\u8217?, Trans. Am. Inst.                    Wadsworth: \u8216?From nanocrystalline to amorphous structure in ber-\par
              Metall. Eng., 1953, 197, (2), 238\u8211?242.                                         yllium-based coatings\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2002, 50, (19), 4791\u8211?4800.\par
         131. K. Okazaki and H. Conrad: \u8216?Effects of interstitial content and            156. G. I. Turner and R. A. Lane: \u8216?The effect of powder particle size on\par
              grain size on the strength of titanium at low temperatures\u8217?, Acta              the mechanical properties of hot pressed high purity beryllium\u8217?,\par
              Metall., 1973, 21, (8), 1117\u8211?1129.                                             Fourth Int. Conf. on Beryllium, London, UK, 1977.\par
         132. H. Hu and R. S. Cline: \u8216?Mechanism of reorientation during recrys-         157. D. V. Wilson and J. A. Chapman: \u8216?Effects of preferred orientation\par
              tallization of polycrystalline titanium\u8217?, Trans. Met. Soc. AIME,               on the grain size dependence of yield strength in metals\u8217?, Philos.\par
              1968, 242, (6), 1013\u8211?1024.                                                     Mag., 1963, 8, (93), 1543\u8211?1551.\par
         133. C. E. Coleman and D. Hardie: \u8216?Grain-size dependence in the \u64258?ow            158. D. V. Wilson: \u8216?Ductility of polycrystalline magnesium below 300\par
              and fracture of alpha zirconium\u8217?, J. Inst. Met., 1966, 94, (11), 387\u8211?          K\u8217?, J. Inst. Met., 1970, 98, (5), 133\u8211?143.\par
              391.                                                                      159. N. Ono, R. Nowak and S. Miura: \u8216?Effect of deformation tempera-\par
         134. S. V. Ramani and P. Rodriguez: \u8216?Grain size dependence of the                   ture on Hall\u8211?Petch relationship registered for polycrystalline mag-\par
              deformation behaviour of alpha zirconium\u8217?, Can. Metall. Q.,                    nesium\u8217?, Mater. Let., 2004, 58, (1), 39\u8211?43.\par
              1972, 11, (1), 61\u8211?67.                                                     160. H. J. Choi, Y. Kim, J. H. Shin and D. H. Bae: \u8216?Deformation behav-\par
         135. D. J. Abson and J. J. Jonas: \u8216?Substructure strengthening in zirco-             ior of magnesium in the grain size spectrum from nano-to\par
              nium and zirconium-tin alloys\u8217?, J. Nucl. Mater., 1972, 42, (1),                micrometer\u8217?, Mater. Sci. Eng.: A, 2010, 527, (6), 1565\u8211?1570.\par
              73\u8211?85.                                                                    161. J. Li, W. Xu, X. Wu, H. Ding and K. Xia: \u8216?Effects of grain size on\par
         136. C. Yuan, R. Fu, F. Zhang, X. Zhang and F. Liu: \u8216?Microstructure                 compressive behaviour in ultra\u64257?ne grained pure Mg processed by\par
              evolution and mechanical properties of nanocrystalline zirconium               equal channel angular pressing at room temperature\u8217?, Mater. Sci.\par
              processed by surface circulation rolling treatment\u8217?, Mater. Sci.               Eng.: A, 2011, 528, (18), 5993\u8211?5998.\par
              Eng.: A, 2013, 565, 27\u8211?32.                                                162. C. H. Caceres, G. E. Mann and J. R. Grif\u64257?ths: \u8216?Grain size harden-\par
         137. L. Jiang, M. T. P\u233?rez-Prado, P. A. Gruber, E. Arzt, O. A. Ruano                ing in Mg and Mg-Zn solid solutions\u8217?, Metall. Mater. Trans. A,\par
              and M. E. Kassner: \u8216?Texture, microstructure and mechanical prop-               2011, 42, (7), 1950\u8211?1959.\par
              erties of equiaxed ultra\u64257?ne-grained Zr fabricated by accumulative         163. J. A. Sharon, Y. Zhang, F. Mompiou, M. Legros and K. J. Hemker:\par
              roll bonding\u8217?, Acta Materialia, 2008, 56, (6), 1228\u8211?1242.                      \u8216?Discerning size effect strengthening in ultra\u64257?ne-grained Mg thin\par
         138. E. K. Cerreta, C. A. Yablinsky, G. T. Gray, S. C. Vogel and D. W.              \u64257?lms\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2014, 75, 10\u8211?13.\par
              Brown: \u8216?The in\u64258?uence of grain size and texture on the mechanical          164. R. W. Armstrong, I. Codd, R. M. Douthwaite and N. J. Petch: \u8216?The\par
              response of high purity hafnium\u8217?, Mater. Sci. Eng.: A, 2007, 456,              plastic deformation of polycrystalline aggregates\u8217?, Philos. Mag.,\par
              (1), 243\u8211?251.                                                                  1962, 7, (73), 45\u8211?58.\par
         139. A. A. Karimpoor and U. Erb: \u8216?Mechanical properties of nanocrys-           165. F. Chmelik, Z. Trojanova, P. Luk\u225?c\u780? and Z. P\u9072?evorovsk\u253?: \u8216?Acoustic\par
              talline cobalt\u8217?, Phys. Stat. Sol. (a), 2006, 203, (6), 1265\u8211?1270.              emission from zinc deformed at room temperature Part II The\par
         140. A. A. Karimpoor, K. T. Aust and U. Erb: \u8216?Charpy impact energy of               in\u64258?uence of grain size on deformation behaviour and acoustic\par
              nanocrystalline and polycrystalline cobalt\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2007,             emission of pure zinc\u8217?, J. Mater. Sci. Let., 1993, 12, (15), 1166\u8211?\par
              56, (3), 201\u8211?204.                                                              1168.\par
         141. A. A. Karimpoor, U. Erb, K. T. Aust and G. Palumbo: \u8216?High                 166. X. Zhang, H. Wang, R. O. Scattergood, J. Narayan and C. C.\par
              strength nanocrystalline cobalt with high tensile ductility\u8217?,                  Koch: \u8216?Evolution of microstructure and mechanical properties of\par
              Scripta Mater., 2003, 49, (7), 651\u8211?656.                                        in situ consolidated bulk ultra-\u64257?ne-grained and nanocrystalline\par
         142. Y. M. Wang, R. T. Ott, T. Van Buuren, T. M. Willey, M. M. Biener               Zn prepared by ball milling\u8217?, Mater. Sci. Eng.: A, 2003, 344, (1),\par
              and A. V. Hamza: \u8216?Controlling factors in tensile deformation of                175\u8211?181.\par
              nanocrystalline cobalt and nickel\u8217?, Phys. Rev. B, 2012, 85, (1),          167. X. K. Zhu, X. Zhang, H. Wang, A. V. Sergueeva, A. K. Mukherjee,\par
              14101.                                                                         R. O. Scattergood, J. Narayan and C. C. Koch: \u8216?Synthesis of bulk\par
         143. J. Sort, A. Zhilyaev, M. Zielinska, J. Nogu\u233?s, S. Surinach, J.                 nanostructured Zn by combinations of cryomilling and powder\par
              Thibault and M. D. Bar\u243?: \u8216?Microstructural effects and large micro-             consolidation by room temperature milling: optimizing mechanical\par
              hardness in cobalt processed by high pressure torsion consolidation            properties\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2003, 49, (5), 429\u8211?433.\par
              of ball milled powders\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2003, 51, (20), 6385\u8211?6393.          168. H. Mueller and F. Haessner: \u8216?In\u64258?uence of grain size and texture on\par
         144. K. Hayashi and H. Etoh: \u8216?Pressure sintering of iron, cobalt, nickel            the \u64258?ow stress of zinc\u8217?, Scripta Metall., 1981, 15, (5), 487\u8211?492.\par
              and copper ultra\u64257?ne powders and the crystal grain size and hard-          169. H. Conrad and J. Narayan: \u8216?Mechanisms for grain size hardening\par
              ness of the compacts\u8217?, Mater. Trans., JIM, 1989, 30, (11), 925\u8211?931.            and softening in Zn\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2002, 50, (20), 5067\u8211?5078.\par
         145. S. Gelles, V. Nerses and J. Siergie: \u8216?Beryllium as a structural           170. J. Narayan, R. K. Venkatesan and A. Kvit: \u8216?Structure and proper-\par
              material: how great a deterrent is its lack of ductility?\u8217?, J. Met.,           ties of nanocrystalline zinc \u64257?lms\u8217?, J. Nanoparticle Res., 2002, 4, (3),\par
              1963, 15, 843\u8211?848.                                                             265\u8211?269.\par
         146. D. Webster, R. L. Greene and R. W. Lawley: \u8216?Factors controlling           171. P. Dusek and P. Lukac: \u8216?Deformation of zinc polycrystals at room\par
              the strength and ductility of high purity beryllium block\u8217?, Metall.            temperature\u8217?, Kovove Materialy, 1979, 17, (5), 538\u8211?545.\par
              Trans., 1974, 5, (1), 91\u8211?96.                                              172. N. R. Risebrough and E. Teghtsoonian: \u8216?The linear hardening of\par
         147. I. N. Khristenko, I. I. Papirov and G. F. Tikhinskii: \u8216?Effect of struc-        cadmium\u8217?, Can. J. Phys., 1967, 45, (2), 591\u8211?605.\par
              tural factors on the yield strength of beryllium\u8217?, Met. Sci. & Heat       173. S. L. Mannan and P. Rodriguez: \u8216?Grain size dependence of the\par
              Treat., 1976, 18, (7), 597\u8211?600.                                                deformation behaviour of cadmium\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1975, 23, (2),\par
         148. B. C. Odegard Jr: \u8216?In\u64258?uence of purity level on the mechanical prop-            221\u8211?228.\par
              erties of hot isostatically pressed beryllium\u8217?, Report no. SAND-79-       174. W. J. M. Tegart: \u8216?Tensile properties of polycrystalline cadmium and\par
              8232, 1979, Livermore, CA, Sandia Laboratory.                                  some cadmium alloys in the range -196 to 200 \u176?C\u8217?, J. Inst. Met.,\par
         149. B. K. Kardashev and I. B. Kupriyanov: \u8216?Elastic, micro- and macro-              1962, 91, (3), 99\u8211?104.\par
              plastic properties of polycrystalline beryllium\u8217?, Phys. Solid State,      175. P. G. Sanders, C. J. Youngdahl and J. R. Weertman: \u8216?The strength\par
              2011, 53, (12), 2480\u8211?2485.                                                     of nanocrystalline metals with and without \u64258?aws\u8217?, Mater. Sci. Eng.:\par
         150. G. J. London, G. H. Keith and N. P. Pinto: \u8216?Grain size and oxide               A, 1997, 234\u8211?236, 77\u8211?82.\par
              content affect beryllium\u8217?s properties\u8217?, Met. Eng. Q., 1976, 16, (4),      176. A. H. Cottrell: \u8216?Theory of brittle fracture in steel and similar\par
              45\u8211?57.                                                                         metals\u8217?, Trans. Am. Inst. Metall. Eng., 1958, 212, 192\u8211?203.\par
         151. V. E. Ivanov, G. F. Tikhinskij, I. I. Papirov, I. A. Taranenko and L.     177. E. Smith and P. J. Worthington: \u8216?The effect of orientation on the\par
              A. Kornienko: \u8216?Grain size effect on mechanical properties of beryl-            grain size dependence of the yield strength of metals\u8217?, Philos.\par
              lium\u8217?, Phys. Met. Metall., 1979, 47, (2), 420\u8211?424.                             Mag., 1964, 9, (98), 211\u8211?216.\par
         152. B. Allen and A. Moore: \u8216?The tough-brittle transition in beryllium\u8217?,       178. A. Navarro and E. R. De Los Rios: \u8216?An alternative model of the\par
              Conf. on the Metall. of Beryllium, 1961, London.                               blocking of dislocations at grain boundaries\u8217?, Philos. Mag. A,\par
         153. M. Kawasaki, S. Sato, T. Oku, K. Kida and S. Nishigaki: \u8216?Studies               1988, 57, (1), 37\u8211?42.\par
              on the mechanical properties of Japanese beryllium\u8217?, Conf. Int.           179. A. A. Nazarov: \u8216?On the pile-up model of the grain size-yield stress\par
              Metallurgie Beryllium, Paris, 1965, Univ. de France.                           relation for nanocrystals\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 1996, 34, (5), 697\u8211?701.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
510     International Materials Reviews           2016      VOL   61    NO   8\par
                                                                                                            Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
180. L. H. Friedman and D. C. Chrzan: \u8216?Continuum analysis of dislo-             210. N. P. Allen, B. E. Hopkins and J. E. McLennan: \u8216?The tensile prop-\par
     cation pile-ups: in\u64258?uence of sources\u8217?, Philos. Mag. A, 1998, 77,                erties of single crystals of high-purity iron at temperatures from 100\par
     (5), 1185\u8211?1204.                                                                 to -253 \u176?C\u8217?, Proc. Royal Soc. A, 1956, 234, (1197), 221\u8211?246.\par
181. J. C. M. Li: \u8216?Petch relation and grain boundary sources\u8217?, Trans.           211. W. A. Spitzig and A. S. Keh: \u8216?Orientation dependence of the strain-\par
     Am. Inst. Metall. Eng., 1963, 227, (1), 239.                                    rate sensitivity and thermally activated \u64258?ow in iron single crystals\u8217?,\par
182. V. Bata and E. V. Pereloma: \u8216?An alternative physical explanation of             Acta Metall., 1970, 18, (9), 1021\u8211?1033.\par
     the Hall\u8211?Petch relation\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2004, 52, (3), 657\u8211?665.             212. R. P. Steijn and R. M. Brick: \u8216?Flow and fracture of single crystals of\par
183. J. A. Wert: \u8216?Comments on \u8220?An alternative physical explanation of                high purity ferrite\u8217?, Trans. Am. Soc. Metall., 1954, 46, 1406\u8211?1448.\par
     the Hall\u8211?Petch relation\u8221?\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2004, 50, (12), 1487\u8211?           213. F. Guiu and P. L. Pratt: \u8216?The effect of orientation on the yielding\par
     1490.                                                                           and \u64258?ow of molybdenum single crystals\u8217?, Phys. Stat. Sol. (b),\par
184. V. G. Gavriljuk: \u8216?Comment on \u8220?Alternative physical explanation of               1966, 15, (2), 539\u8211?552.\par
     the Hall\u8211?Petch relation\u8221?\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2005, 52, (9), 951\u8211?953.         214. H. J. Kauemann: \u8216?Plasticity of molybdenum single crystals at\par
185. M. F. Ashby: \u8216?The deformation of plastically non-homogeneous                    helium temperature\u8217?, Phys. Stat. Sol. (a), 1981, 65, (1), 53\u8211?58.\par
     materials\u8217?, Philos. Mag., 1970, 21, (170), 399\u8211?424.                        215. R. T. Sato and A. K. Mukherjee: \u8216?The asymmetric temperature\par
186. A. W. Thompson, M. I. Baskes and W. F. Flanagan: \u8216?The depen-                    dependence of yield stress in tantalum single crystals at low temp-\par
     dence of polycrystal work hardening on grain size\u8217?, Acta Metall.,               eratures\u8217?, Mater. Sci. Eng., 1971, 8, (2), 74\u8211?82.\par
     1973, 21, (7), 1017\u8211?1028.                                                  216. B. L. Mordike: \u8216?Plastic deformation of zone re\u64257?ned tantalum single\par
187. M. A. Meyers and E. Ashworth: \u8216?A model for the effect of grain                  crystals\u8217?, Z. Metallk., 1962, 53, (9), 586\u8211?592.\par
     size on the yield stress of metals\u8217?, Philos. Mag. A, 1982, 46, (5),        217. J. Bressers, M. Heerschap and P. De Meester: \u8216?Deformation prop-\par
     737\u8211?759.                                                                        erties of vanadium single crystals\u8217?, J. Less Common Met., 1970, 22,\par
188. H. Conrad: \u8216?Effect of grain size on the lower yield and \u64258?ow stress of           (3), 321\u8211?326.\par
     iron and steel\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1963, 11, (1), 75\u8211?77.                       218. T. E. Mitchell, R. J. Fields and R. L. Smialek: \u8216?Three-stage hard-\par
189. J. D. Meakin and N. J. Petch: \u8216?Strain-hardening of polycrystals: the            ening in vanadium single crystals\u8217?, J. Less Common Met., 1970,\par
     alpha-brasses\u8217?, Philos. Mag., 1974, 29, (5), 1149\u8211?1156.                         20, (2), 167\u8211?170.\par
190. L. E. Murr: \u8216?Yielding and grain-boundary ledges: some comments             219. M. S. Wechsler, R. P. Tucker and R. Bode: \u8216?Radiation hardening in\par
     on the Hall-Petch relation\u8217?, Appl. Phys. Let., 1974, 24, (11), 533\u8211?             single crystal niobium\u8212?The temperature dependence of yielding\u8217?,\par
     536.                                                                            Acta Metall., 1969, 17, (5), 541\u8211?551.\par
191. J. P. Bailon, A. Loyer and J. M. Dorlot: \u8216?The relationships between        220. R. W. K. Honeycombe: \u8216?The plastic deformation of metals\u8217?; 1975,\par
     stress, strain, grain size and dislocation density in Armco iron at             London, Edward Arnold.\par
     room temperature\u8217?, Mater. Sci. Eng., 1971, 8, (5), 288\u8211?298.                221. U. F. Kocks: \u8216?Laws for work-hardening and low-temperature\par
192. J. W. Edington and R. E. Smallman: \u8216?The relationship between                    creep\u8217?, J. Eng. Mater. Technol., 1976, 98, (1), 76\u8211?85.\par
     \u64258?ow stress and dislocation density in deformed vanadium\u8217?, Acta             222. L. E. Murr: \u8216?Interfacial phenomena in metals and alloys\u8217?; 1975,\par
     Metall., 1964, 12, (12), 1313\u8211?1328.                                             Boston, MA, Addison-Wesley.\par
193. W. Boas and M. E. Hargreaves: \u8216?On the inhomogeneity of plastic             223. D. Tabor: \u8216?The hardness of metals\u8217?; 1951, Oxford, Clarendon Press.\par
     deformation in the crystals of an aggregate\u8217?, Proc. Royal Soc. A,          224. Z. C. Szkopiak: \u8216?Interstitial solute pick-up in annealed niobium\par
     1948, 193, (1032), 89\u8211?97.                                                       and the Hall-Petch plot\u8217?, J. Less Common Met., 1972, 26, (1),\par
194. W. Boas and G. J. Ogilvie: \u8216?The plastic deformation of a crystal in a           19\u8211?24.\par
     polycrystalline aggregate\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1954, 2, (5), 655\u8211?659.           225. M. A. Meyers, A. Mishra and D. J. Benson: \u8216?Mechanical properties\par
195. L. E. Murr and S. S. Hecker: \u8216?Quantitative evidence for dislocation             of nanocrystalline materials\u8217?, Prog. Mater. Sci., 2006, 51, (4), 427\u8211?\par
     emission from grain boundaries\u8217?, Scripta Metall., 1979, 13, (3),                556.\par
     167\u8211?171.                                                                   226. M. Dao, L. Lu, R. J. Asaro, J. T. M. De Hosson and E. Ma:\par
196. H. Margolin and M. S. Stanescu: \u8216?Polycrystalline strengthening\u8217?,                \u8216?Toward a quantitative understanding of mechanical behavior\par
     Acta Metall., 1975, 23, (12), 1411\u8211?1418.                                        of nanocrystalline metals\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2007, 55, (12), 4041\u8211?\par
197. H. H. Fu, D. J. Benson and M. A. Meyers: \u8216?Analytical and compu-                 4065.\par
     tational description of effect of grain size on yield stress of metals\u8217?,   227. F. A. McClintock and A. S. Argon: \u8216?Mechanical behavior of\par
     Acta Mater., 2001, 49, (13), 2567\u8211?2582.                                         materials\u8217?; 1966, Boston, MA, Addison-Wesley.\par
198. J. Jiang, T. B. Britton and A. J. Wilkinson: \u8216?Evolution of dislo-          228. R. C. Hugo, H. Kung, J. R. Weertman, R. Mitra, J. A. Knapp and\par
     cation density distributions in copper during tensile deformation\u8217?,             D. M. Follstaedt: \u8216?In-situ TEM tensile testing of DC magnetron\par
     Acta Mater., 2013, 61, (19), 7227\u8211?7239.                                         sputtered and pulsed laser deposited Ni thin \u64257?lms\u8217?, Acta Mater.,\par
199. W. M. Baldwin: \u8216?Yield strength of metals as a function of grain                 2003, 51, (7), 1937\u8211?1943.\par
     size\u8217?, Acta Metall., 1958, 6, (2), 139\u8211?141.                                229. K. S. Kumar, S. Suresh, M. F. Chisholm, J. A. Horton and P. Wang:\par
200. T. Christman: \u8216?Grain boundary strengthening exponent in conven-                 \u8216?Deformation of electrodeposited nanocrystalline nickel\u8217?, Acta\par
     tional and ultra\u64257?ne microstructures\u8217?, Scripta Metall. Mater., 1993,             Mater., 2003, 51, (2), 387\u8211?405.\par
     28, (12), 1495\u8211?1500.                                                       230. K. M. Youssef, R. O. Scattergood, K. L. Murty, J. A. Horton and\par
201. J. P. Hirth: \u8216?The in\u64258?uence of grain boundaries on mechanical prop-              C. C. Koch: \u8216?Ultrahigh strength and high ductility of bulk nano-\par
     erties\u8217?, Metall. Trans., 1972, 3, (12), 3047\u8211?3067.                              crystalline copper\u8217?, Appl. Phys. Let., 2005, 87, (9), 091904.\par
202. D. J. Dunstan and A. J. Bushby: \u8216?Grain size dependence of the              231. C. J. Youngdahl, J. R. Weertman, R. C. Hugo and H. H. Kung:\par
     strength of metals: the Hall\u8211?Petch effect does not scale as the                 \u8216?Deformation behavior in nanocrystalline copper\u8217?, Scripta\par
     inverse square root of grain size\u8217?, Int. J. Plasticity, 2014, 53, 56\u8211?65.        Mater., 2001, 44, (8), 1475\u8211?1478.\par
203. W. L. Bragg: \u8216?A theory of the strength of metals\u8217?, Nature, 1942, 149,      232. K. Jonnalagadda, N. Karanjgaokar, I. Chasiotis, J. Chee and D.\par
     511\u8211?513.                                                                        Peroulis: \u8216?Strain rate sensitivity of nanocrystalline Au \u64257?lms at\par
204. U. F. Kocks: \u8216?The relation between polycrystal deformation and                  room temperature\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2010, 58, (14), 4674\u8211?4684.\par
     single-crystal deformation\u8217?, Metall. Mater. Trans., 1970, 1, (5),          233. M. A. Haque and M. T. A. Saif: \u8216?Deformation mechanisms in free-\par
     1121\u8211?1143.                                                                      standing nanoscale thin \u64257?lms: a quantitative in situ transmission\par
205. G. Taylor: \u8216?Thermally-activated deformation of BCC metals and                   electron microscope study\u8217?, Proc. Natl Acad. Sci., 2004, 101,\par
     alloys\u8217?, Prog. Mater. Sci., 1992, 36, 29\u8211?61.                                    (17), 6335\u8211?6340.\par
206. J. W. Christian: \u8216?Some surprising features of the plastic defor-           234. L. Wang, Z. Zhang, E. Ma and X. D. Han: \u8216?Transmission electron\par
     mation of body-centered cubic metals and alloys\u8217?, Metall. Trans.                microscopy observations of dislocation annihilation and storage in\par
     A, 1983, 14, (7), 1237\u8211?1256.                                                    nanograins\u8217?, Appl. Phys. Let., 2011, 98, (5), 51905.\par
207. C. A. Schuh, T. G. Nieh and H. Iwasaki: \u8216?The effect of solid sol-          235. G. M. Cheng, W. W. Jian, W. Z. Xu, H. Yuan, P. C. Millett and Y.\par
     ution W additions on the mechanical properties of nanocrystalline               T. Zhu: \u8216?Grain size effect on deformation mechanisms of nanocrys-\par
     Ni\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2003, 51, (2), 431\u8211?443.                                       talline BCC metals\u8217?, Mater. Res. Let., 2013, 1, (1), 26\u8211?31.\par
208. J. M. Rosenberg and H. R. Piehler: \u8216?Calculation of the Taylor fac-         236. M. Hommel and O. Kraft: \u8216?Deformation behavior of thin copper\par
     tor and lattice rotations for bcc metals deforming by pencil glide\u8217?,            \u64257?lms on deformable substrates\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2001, 49, (19),\par
     Metall. Trans., 1971, 2, (1), 257\u8211?259.                                          3935\u8211?3947.\par
209. B. L. Mordike and P. Haasen: \u8216?The in\u64258?uence of temperature and              237. R. J. Asaro, P. Krysl and B. Kad: \u8216?Deformation mechanism tran-\par
     strain rate on the \u64258?ow stress of alpha-iron single crystals\u8217?, Philos.           sitions in nanoscale FCC metals\u8217?, Philos. Mag. Let., 2003, 83,\par
     Mag., 1962, 7, (75), 459\u8211?474.                                                   (12), 733\u8211?743.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                       International Materials Reviews          2016      VOL   61    NO   8   511\par
Cordero et al.   Six decades of the Hall\u8211?Petch effect\par
\par
\par
\par
         238. R. J. Asaro and S. Suresh: \u8216?Mechanistic models for the activation       255. X. Zhang and K. E. Aifantis: \u8216?Interpreting the softening of nano-\par
              volume and rate sensitivity in metals with nanocrystalline grains            materials through gradient plasticity\u8217?, J. Mater. Res., 2011, 26,\par
              and nano-scale twins\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2005, 53, (12), 3369\u8211?3382.               (11), 1399\u8211?1405.\par
         239. P. Gu, M. Dao, R. J. Asaro and S. Suresh: \u8216?A uni\u64257?ed mechanistic         256. H. W. Song, S. R. Guo and Z. Q. Hu: \u8216?A coherent polycrystal\par
              model for size-dependent deformation in nanocrystalline and                  model for the inverse Hall-Petch relation in nanocrystalline\par
              nanotwinned metals\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2011, 59, (18), 6861\u8211?6868.                 materials\u8217?, Nanostruc. Mater., 1999, 11, (2), 203\u8211?210.\par
         240. P. Gu, B. K. Kad and M. Dao: \u8216?Revisiting the intra-granular dislo-      257. S. Takeuchi: \u8216?The mechanism of the inverse Hall-Petch relation of\par
              cation extension model for \u64258?ow stress in nanocrystalline metals\u8217?,            nanocrystals\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2001, 44, (8), 1483\u8211?1487.\par
              Philos. Mag. Let., 2012, 92, (3), 111\u8211?121.                              258. A. A. Fedorov, M. Y. Gutkin and I. A. Ovid\u8217?ko: \u8216?Transformations\par
         241. A. S. Argon and S. Yip: \u8216?The strongest size\u8217?, Philos. Mag. Let.,             of grain boundary dislocation pile-ups in nano-and polycrystalline\par
              2006, 86, (11), 713\u8211?720.                                                     materials\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2003, 51, (4), 887\u8211?898.\par
         242. J. Schi\u248?tz and K. W. Jacobsen: \u8216?A maximum in the strength of            259. A. A. Fedorov, M. Y. Gutkin and I. A. Ovid\u8217?ko: \u8216?Triple junction\par
              nanocrystalline copper\u8217?, Science, 2003, 301, (5638), 1357\u8211?1359.              diffusion and plastic \u64258?ow in \u64257?ne-grained materials\u8217?, Scripta\par
         243. J. Schi\u248?tz, T. Vegge, F. D. Di Tolla and K. W. Jacobsen: \u8216?Atomic-            Mater., 2002, 47, (1), 51\u8211?55.\par
              scale simulations of the mechanical deformation of nanocrystalline      260. H. S. Kim and Y. Estrin: \u8216?Phase mixture modeling of the strain rate\par
              metals\u8217?, Phys. Rev. B, 1999, 60, (17), 11971.                                dependent mechanical behavior of nanostructured materials\u8217?, Acta\par
         244. V. Yamakov, D. Wolf, S. R. Phillpot, A. K. Mukherjee and H.                  Mater., 2005, 53, (3), 765\u8211?772.\par
              Gleiter: \u8216?Deformation-mechanism map for nanocrystalline metals          261. N. Wang, Z. Wang, K. T. Aust and U. Erb: \u8216?Effect of grain size on\par
              by molecular-dynamics simulation\u8217?, Nature Mater., 2004, 3, (1),              mechanical properties of nanocrystalline materials\u8217?, Acta Metall.\par
              43\u8211?47.                                                                       Mater., 1995, 43, (2), 519\u8211?528.\par
         245. J. R. Trelewicz and C. A. Schuh: \u8216?The Hall\u8211?Petch breakdown in           262. A. H. Chokshi: \u8216?An analysis of creep deformation in nanocrystal-\par
              nanocrystalline metals: a crossover to glass-like deformation\u8217?,              line materials\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 1996, 34, (12), 1905\u8211?1910.\par
              Acta Mater., 2007, 55, (17), 5948\u8211?5958.                                 263. A. H. Chokshi: \u8216?Unusual stress and grain size dependence for creep\par
         246. W. Qin, Z. Chen, P. Huang and Y. Zhuang: \u8216?Dislocation pileups in             in nanocrystalline materials\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2009, 61, (1), 96\u8211?99.\par
              nanocrystalline materials\u8217?, J. Alloy. Compd., 1999, 289, (1), 285\u8211?      264. D. S. Gianola, D. H. Warner, J. F. Molinari and K. J. Hemker:\par
              288.                                                                         \u8216?Increased strain rate sensitivity due to stress-coupled grain growth\par
         247. T. G. Nieh and J. Wadsworth: \u8216?Hall-Petch relation in nanocrystal-            in nanocrystalline Al\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 2006, 55, (7), 649\u8211?652.\par
              line solids\u8217?, Scripta Metall. Mater., 1991, 25, (4), 955\u8211?958.           265. Y. M. Wang, A. V. Hamza and E. Ma: \u8216?Temperature-dependent\par
         248. C. E. Carlton and P. J. Ferreira: \u8216?What is behind the inverse Hall\u8211?          strain rate sensitivity and activation volume of nanocrystalline\par
              Petch effect in nanocrystalline materials?\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2007, 55,          Ni\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2006, 54, (10), 2715\u8211?2726.\par
              (11), 3749\u8211?3756.                                                        266. M. Park and C. A. Schuh: \u8216?Accelerated sintering in phase-separ-\par
         249. J. E. Carsley, J. Ning, W. W. Milligan, S. A. Hackney and E. C.              ating nanostructured alloys\u8217?, Nature Comm., 2015, 6, 6858.\par
              Aifantis: \u8216?A simple, mixtures-based model for the grain size depen-     267. T. Chookajorn, H. A. Murdoch and C. A. Schuh: \u8216?Design of stable\par
              dence of strength in nanophase metals\u8217?, Nanostruc. Mater., 1995, 5,          nanocrystalline alloys\u8217?, Science, 2012, 337, (6097), 951\u8211?954.\par
              (4), 441\u8211?448.                                                           268. S. J. Dillon, M. Tang, W. C. Carter and M. P. Harmer:\par
         250. H. S. Kim: \u8216?A composite model for mechanical properties of nano-             \u8216?Complexion: a new concept for kinetic engineering in materials\par
              crystalline materials\u8217?, Scripta Mater., 1998, 39, (8), 1057\u8211?1061.            science\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2007, 55, (18), 6208\u8211?6218.\par
         251. P. Barai and G. J. Weng: \u8216?Mechanics of very \u64257?ne-grained nanocrys-       269. L. Lu, X. Chen, X. Huang and K. Lu: \u8216?Revealing the maximum\par
              talline materials with contributions from grain interior, GB zone and        strength in nanotwinned copper\u8217?, Science, 2009, 323, (5914),\par
              grain-boundary sliding\u8217?, Int. J. Plast., 2009, 25, (12), 2410\u8211?2434.          607\u8211?610.\par
         252. G. J. Fan, H. Choo, P. K. Liaw and E. J. Lavernia: \u8216?A model for the     270. K. Lu, L. Lu and S. Suresh: \u8216?Strengthening materials by engineer-\par
              inverse Hall\u8211?Petch relation of nanocrystalline materials\u8217?, Mater.            ing coherent internal boundaries at the nanoscale\u8217?, Science, 2009,\par
              Sci. Eng.: A, 2005, 409, (1), 243\u8211?248.                                       324, (5925), 349\u8211?352.\par
         253. M. Huang, O. Bouaziz and S. van der Zwaag: \u8216?Modelling the stron-        271. M. A. Meyers, O. V\u246?hringer and V. A. Lubarda: \u8216?The onset of\par
              gest grain size in nanocrystalline FCC metals\u8217?, Mater. Let., 2011,           twinning in metals: a constitutive description\u8217?, Acta Mater., 2001,\par
              65, (19), 3128\u8211?3130.                                                         49, (19), 4025\u8211?4039.\par
         254. F. A. Mohamed and H. Yang: \u8216?Deformation mechanisms in nano-             272. R. W. Armstrong and P. J. Worthington: \u8216?A constitutive relation for\par
              crystalline materials\u8217?, Metall. Mater. Trans. A, 2010, 41, (4),              deformation twinning in body centered cubic metals\u8217?; 1973,\par
              823\u8211?837.                                                                     New York, Plenum Press.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
512     International Materials Reviews          2016      VOL   61   NO   8\par

}