{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
Modelling and\par
Simulation in Materials\par
Science and\par
Engineering\par
\par
\par
PAPER                                                                                                 You may also like\par
                                                                                                        - Signal quality in cardiorespiratory\par
Detection of dislocation motion in atomistic                                                              monitoring\par
                                                                                                          Gari D Clifford and George B Moody\par
simulations of nanocrystalline materials                                                                - Multiple Face Detection Using Haar -\par
                                                                                                          AdaBoosting, LBP-AdaBoosting and\par
                                                                                                          Neural Networks\par
To cite this article: Noya Dimanstein Firman et al 2024 Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 055003       B.Thirumaleshwari Devi and S. Shitharth\par
\par
                                                                                                        - Effects of vacancy concentration on the\par
                                                                                                          edge dislocation motion in copper by\par
                                                                                                          atomic simulations\par
                                                                                                          Wenjin Chen, Run Li, Songlin Yao et al.\par
View the article online for updates and enhancements.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                              This content was downloaded from IP address 132.64.99.15 on 10/09/2025 at 13:59\par
                                                            Modelling and Simulation in Materials Science and Engineering\par
\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003 (15pp)                          https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-651X/ad437c\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Detection of dislocation motion in atomistic\par
simulations of nanocrystalline materials\par
                    Noya Dimanstein Firman1, Eliyahu Zvi Engelberg2,\u8727?\u59865?\par
                    and Yinon Ashkenazy1,\u8727?\u59865?\par
                    1\par
                      Racah Institute of Physics and the Center of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology,\par
                    The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem 9190401, Israel\par
                    2\par
                      Azrieli College of Engineering Jerusalem, Jerusalem 9103501, Israel\par
\par
                    E-mail: elien@jce.ac.il and yinona@phys.huji.ac.il\par
\par
                    Received 12 December 2023; revised 6 April 2024\par
                    Accepted for publication 25 April 2024\par
                    Published 8 May 2024\par
\par
                    Abstract\par
                    A method for identifying dislocation motion in atomistic simulations is presen-\par
                    ted. While identifying static and moving dislocations within a single crystal or\par
                    a combination of such is well established, the method described here is tailored\par
                    to identify dislocation motion by correlating the displacements of individual\par
                    atoms. This facilitates the identification of dislocation motion in complex struc-\par
                    tural arrangements, and allows the specific contribution to plastic deformation,\par
                    due to dislocation motion, to be separated from that of other mechanisms. The\par
                    method is applied to test cases in crystals and grain boundaries (GBs), in which\par
                    irradiation-induced creep (IIC) was induced. It is shown that the method singles\par
                    out the moving dislocations from among the dislocation forest at GBs, thus\par
                    identifying the specific reactions driving the distortion at any given time. This\par
                    enables the study of dislocation processes in the presence of realistic obstacles,\par
                    and the study of the effects of microstructure on dislocation mobility. As an\par
                    example of such a study, the method is applied to rule out intragranular slip, and\par
                    to estimate the contribution of dislocation motion to strain, in a NC undergoing\par
                    IIC.\par
\par
                    Keywords: dislocations, molecular dynamics, graphs, nanocrystals\par
\par
1. Introduction\par
\par
Dislocation dynamics often control the plastic response of metals. These dynamics depend\par
on material properties, reactions among dislocations, and their response to ambient condi-\par
tions such as stress and strain [1]. Therefore, analyzing these dynamics lies at the core of\par
understanding various plastic processes. In most cases, however, direct observation of the\par
\par
\u8727?\par
    Authors to whom any correspondence should be addressed.\par
\par
\u169? 2024 IOP Publishing Ltd                                                                                                1\par
All rights, including for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies, are reserved.\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                            N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
development of dislocation complexes is impossible [2, 3]. One alternative to direct obser-\par
vation is to run molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to study the plastic response of metals.\par
These can provide information regarding the details of the relations between atomistic arrange-\par
ments and the dislocation processes occurring in metals [4].\par
    At present, it is computationally feasible to run direct MD simulations of nanocrystals\par
(NCs) containing a few tens or hundreds of grains, each of a size of a few tens of nanometers\par
[5]. Such a simulation, with appropriate boundary conditions (periodic or simulating an\par
external load), represents a small part of a macroscopic metal. MD simulations of three-\par
dimensional periodic NC structures have been widely used to study detailed deformation\par
mechanisms under stress [6, 7]. These simulations, together with transmission electron micro-\par
scope observations, suggest that heterogeneous microstrain evolution in NCs originates in dis-\par
locations at the grain boundaries (GBs) [8]. It was shown that, during deformation, partial\par
dislocations are emitted from GBs, leading to the plastic deformation of NCs [9, 10]. Thus,\par
identifying dislocations in GBs, and especially moving dislocations, has become pivotal in the\par
study of the plasticity of NCs.\par
    The classical method used to identify dislocations is Burgers circuit construction, in which\par
paths connecting atoms in the deformed crystal, which is being inspected, are compared to\par
paths in a reference crystalline structure. Algorithms based on this method proved to be\par
extremely robust, but they require the identification, and therefore the existence, of a well-\par
defined reference local crystalline order [11\u8211?13]. As such, the effectivity of these algorithms\par
is limited at highly distorted regions, and specifically near GBs and other large-scale defects.\par
    Variation of the underlying structure of the crystal is accounted for in the dislocation extrac-\par
tion algorithm (DXA) [13, 14]. This method can identify dislocations even in large complexes\par
and near GBs, and was used to identify large static distributions of dislocations [13\u8211?17]. In\par
some cases, however, the plastic activity of a metal is determined by the motion of only a small\par
number of these dislocations. In such cases, following the changes in the static distribution of\par
all dislocations may be computationally prohibitive, and does not provide enough information\par
to understand the processes driving the plastic activity. This is exacerbated by the fact that the\par
accuracy of tracking all the dislocations in a complex environment is limited. In these cases, to\par
study plastic activity, it is imperative to single out the dislocations driving it, i.e. those which\par
are in motion.\par
    In this paper, we describe a method to identify dislocations that have moved in a crystal.\par
This method utilizes the highly-correlated displacements of individual atoms characterizing\par
dislocation motion. The method, which we call the common motion grouping (CMG) method,\par
singles out moving dislocations, does not assume any underlying crystal structure, and is not\par
computationally intensive. It is, therefore, well adapted to the study of plasticity driven by the\par
generation of dislocations at GBs.\par
\par
\par
2. Description of the CMG method\par
\par
The CMG algorithm is based on identifying the correlation of the displacements of individual\par
atoms between consecutive time frames. This is done in two steps:\par
   First, atoms whose displacement, relative to their local environment, exceeds rmin are identi-\par
fied. This minimal value is determined to eliminate atoms whose displacement is due to normal\par
thermal Gaussian motion (see appendix A).\par
   Next, the non-thermally displaced atoms are organized as nodes of a binary graph. An edge\par
connects every two atoms that moved in a correlated manner, which is defined as fulfilling two\par
conditions:\par
\par
                                                     2\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                           N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
 1. The two atoms are within distance d of each other, where the value of d is between the\par
    nearest-neighbor and the next-nearest-neighbor distances in the lattice (see appendix A).\par
 2. The cosine of the angle between their relative displacements has an absolute value that is\par
    greater than cos \u952?max , meaning that their displacements were directionally correlated. For\par
    details of how cos \u952?max is determined, see appendix A.\par
\par
    The atoms are grouped into connected components, i.e. groups of atoms that are all con-\par
nected, either directly or via other connected nodes [18].\par
    Nonthermal atomic motion can be caused by defects other than dislocations, but will not, in\par
general, involve the correlated motion of several atoms in the same direction. Thus, to differen-\par
tiate between moving dislocations and atomic motion caused by other defects, only groups that\par
consist of at least N atoms (see appendix A) that moved in a correlated manner are identified\par
as loci of valid moving dislocations.\par
\par
\par
3. Validation\par
\par
 To validate the CMG algorithm presented in section 2, we examine its performance when\par
 applied to the results of the MD simulations of two geometrically simple cases. In both cases,\par
 simulations of single fcc Cu grains were performed using LAMMPS [19], and employing the\par
 widely-used embedded atom method (EAM) potential [20]. In each simulation, two perfect\par
 dislocations were introduced. The displacements of atoms due to the motion of these disloca-\par
 tions were then analyzed using the CMG method, and were shown to be consistent with the\par
 results of the commonly-used DXA algorithm [14].\par
    In reference simulation A, an fcc lattice was created with dimensions Lx = 358 \u197?,\par
 Ly = 501 \u197?, and Lz = 27 \u197?, oriented along the axes shown in figure 1, and with periodic\par
 boundaries. Two straight edge dislocations with opposite Burgers vectors parallel to the x axis,\par
\u8407?b1 = [110] and \u8407?b2 = [110], were inserted into the lattice at a distance of \u8710?y = 100 \u197? from each\par
 other. The dislocations were oriented along the z ([112]) axis. Such a dislocation dipole has\par
 a lower long-range elastic field, thus allowing simulations to produce convergent results in\par
 relatively small systems [21].\par
    Initial relaxation was carried out by simulating the system in an isothermal-isobaric (NPT)\par
 ensemble [22] at a temperature of 300 K. In the first 10 ps, a shear stress \u963? xy was ramped from\par
 0 to 0.2 kbar. Each of the two dislocations initially dissociated in its corresponding glide plane\par
 into two Shockley partials, separated by a stacking-fault ribbon, as follows:\par
\par
                  1[ ]           1[    ] 1[   ]\par
                    110 \u8594?           121 + 211\par
                  2              6       6\par
                  1[ ]           1[    ] 1[   ]\par
                    110 \u8594?           211 + 121 .                                                   (1)\par
                  2              6       6\par
\par
The distance between each two partials fluctuated between 20 and 25 \u197?. Following this period\par
of relaxation, the stress was held constant at 0.2 kbar for another 10 ps, during which the\par
dissociated dislocations moved away from each other along their glide planes.\par
    The DXA was employed using Ovito [23] to detect the dislocations at ti = 14 ps and\par
tf = 20 ps. The CMG method was then applied to detect dislocations that moved between these\par
two time frames. As seen in figure 2, each of the four partial dislocations swept along a surface\par
roughly situated on its xz slip plane. The dislocations detected by the DXA are situated at either\par
side of this surface. The CMG method identified atoms on or close to this surface as proximate\par
atoms with a common direction of motion, thus belonging to one distinct dislocation. Note that\par
\par
                                                     3\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                                   N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Figure 1. A sketch of the cell of reference simulation A. The lines a, b, c, and d indicate\par
                  the partial Shockley dislocations, with the stacking-fault ribbon marked in gray.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Figure 2. Dislocation map of reference simulation A, looking along the [001] direction.\par
                  The initial and final positions of the partial dislocations detected by the DXA are shown,\par
                  with an arrow pointing in the direction of motion. The atoms shown in between were\par
                  identified by the CMG method as atoms that were displaced due to the motion of the\par
                  dislocations. This image and others in this manuscript were produced with the help of\par
                  the Ovito program [23].\par
\par
\par
\par
 the method is designed to detect the atoms that changed their position due to the motion of\par
 each dislocation, rather than the dislocation line itself.\par
    Similar results were obtained when reference simulation A was repeated at a temperature of\par
 700 K (see appendix B), indicating that the CMG method can be applied across a wide range\par
 of temperatures.\par
    In reference simulation B a similar lattice was created, with dimensions Lx = 27 \u197?,\par
 Ly = 501 \u197?, and Lz = 358 \u197?, see figure 3. This time, two straight screw dislocations were\par
 inserted into the lattice at the same distance as in reference simulation A. The dislocations\par
 were oriented along the x axis ([110]) with Burger vectors opposite each other, \u8407?b3 = [110] and\par
\u8407?b4 = [110]. The simulation was run for the same period of time, with a shear stress \u963? xy ramped\par
 from 0 to 0.2 kbar in the first 10 ps, and then held at 0.2 kbar for another 10 ps. Initially, each of\par
 the screw dislocations dissociated into two Shockley partials (equation (1)). The ratio of equi-\par
 librium separations of partials from a screw dislocation, vs. partials from an edge dislocation,\par
 is 3:7 [24]. Therefore, the partial dislocations stayed closer together than those of reference\par
 simulation A, at distances between 10 and 15 \u197?.\par
\par
                                                      4\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                                   N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Figure 3. A sketch of the cell of reference simulation B. The lines e, f, g, and h indicate\par
                  the partial Shockley dislocations, with the stacking-fault ribbon marked in gray.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Figure 4. Dislocation map of reference simulation B, looking along the [201] direction.\par
                  The initial and final positions of the partial dislocations detected by the DXA are shown,\par
                  with an arrow pointing in the direction of motion. The atoms shown in between were\par
                  identified by the CMG method as atoms that were displaced due to the motion of the\par
                  dislocations.\par
\par
\par
    Because of the small dissociation length of the dislocations in reference simulation B, the\par
motion of the Shockley pairs was identified as that of a single complex. The identified dis-\par
placements, together with the DXA detection of the initial and final partial arrangements at ti\par
= 1 picosecond and tf = 5 picoseconds respectively, are shown in figure 4. It is seen that the\par
partial dislocations traveled different distances between the two time frames. This is expected,\par
because the width of a dissociated screw dislocation oscillates periodically [21].\par
    Also in contrast with reference simulation A, in which the shifted atoms were close to the\par
slip plane, here atoms farther away from the slip plane were affected, too. This is a result of the\par
different displacement fields of screw and edge dislocations. See for example figure 5, which\par
compares the magnitude of the change in displacement, due to the motion of a screw and edge\par
dislocation in an isotropic elastic medium, calculated from the displacement fields of infinite\par
straight dislocations [24]. Atoms within the black line in figure 5 are displaced by more than\par
0.7 \u197? (= rmin ).\par
    The time frames used for the CMG analysis, in both reference simulations, were chosen so\par
that all four partial dislocations moved between them (i.e. that at least N atoms were displaced\par
\par
                                                      5\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                                    N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Figure 5. The magnitude of change in displacement in an isotropic elastic medium when\par
                  a (a) screw and (b) edge dislocation line in the x direction (perpendicular to the plane of\par
                  the graph) moves from position (y = 0, z = 0) to (y = 0, z = 5 \u197?). The magnitude of\par
                  the Burgers vector is 2.56 \u197?, and its direction is along the x axis in (a), and the z axis in\par
                  (b). In the areas within the black lines, the change in displacement is greater than 0.7 \u197?\par
                  ( = rmin )\par
\par
\par
\par
due to the motion of each dislocation between the two time frames). On the other hand, they\par
were chosen closely enough so that the motion of the dislocations swept along relatively small\par
areas, and thus it is easy to see the connection between their initial and final positions (found by\par
the DXA), and the groups of atoms that were displaced due to their motion. The comparison\par
of any two time frames, however, yields results that are consistent with the premises of the\par
method.\par
\par
\par
\par
4. Implementations and performance\par
\par
With the CMG method validated using the reference simulations of section 3, we examine its\par
performance in a complex realistic configuration of GBs of a NC undergoing creep, for which\par
it is primarily intended. A cubic NC sample of fcc Cu, 224 \u197? long and composed of seventeen\par
grains, was produced using the method of Voronoi tessellation [25]. GBs were then modified\par
to contain V atoms by switching some of the Cu atoms, using a combined grand canonical\par
Monte-Carlo simulation and MD relaxation, as implemented in LAMMPS [26]. By setting an\par
effective reservoir temperature of 300 K and a chemical potential of 2.8 eV, a metastable state\par
with a solute concentration of 0.9% was created. Due to the high miscibility, V atoms were\par
inserted only at GBs, and at this concentration they stabilized the crystal against spontaneous\par
grain growth. The interactions between atoms was calculated using the EAM potential of [27].\par
    To demonstrate the utility of the method, irradiation-induced creep (IIC) was induced by\par
switching Cu atoms at the GBs and at the monolayers adjacent to them [28], i.e. by removing\par
each atom to create a vacancy and reinserting it as an interstitial atom. The CMG method is\par
particularly useful in such a case, because it differentiates between displacements caused by\par
dislocation motion and those due to the irradiation-induced point-defect flux. Seventy atoms\par
were removed and reinserted at a time, after which the sample was allowed to relax for 80 ps.\par
(The insertion of 140 defects at a time was possible because the relaxation process was found\par
to be local.) This was repeated for 1300 cycles to bring the sample to second-stage creep, and\par
then for another 500 cycles, during which measurements were taken. Throughout this process,\par
the sample was subjected to a constant compressive stress of 4 kbar in the [001] direction (z\par
axis) of the simulation box, using the LAMMPS NPT command.\par
\par
                                                       6\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                               N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Figure 6. GBs and dislocations in a 10 \u197?-wide slab along the (111) plane of a Voronoi-\par
                  tessellated 0.9% solute Cu-V NC, subjected to IIC. A total of 3789 dislocations were\par
                  detected in the whole NC.\par
\par
\par
\par
    The sample was inspected at the early part of second stage creep, i.e. at tf = 106.16 ns from\par
the beginning of the simulation. At this time frame, the DXA detected 3789 dislocations in the\par
GBs [29]. Figure 6 shows the GBs and dislocations detected by the DXA in a 10 \u197?-wide slab\par
along the (111) plane of the simulation box.\par
    The CMG method was then applied to detect moving dislocations at the GBs, by analyz-\par
ing the displacement of atoms during one cycle (of 80 ps). Seventy moving dislocations were\par
identified in the NC by this method. Eight of these moving dislocations were found in the\par
10 \u197?-wide slab around the (111) plane, see figure 7 [30]. The isolation of these dislocations\par
allows direct study of the dislocation dynamics in the NC. Furthermore, as most of the moving\par
dislocations were embedded within the highly distorted regions of the GBs, they were identi-\par
fied only by the CMG method and not by the DXA, because the DXA relies on a well-defined\par
local crystalline structure. The motion of these dislocations can be studied in connection with\par
the yield-stress response of the sample in question.\par
    As an example of such an analysis, the moving dislocations detected in the 500 irradiation\par
cycles of second-stage creep were examined. Each moving dislocation displaced a group of\par
atoms. The greatest of these displacements, for each moving dislocation, was saved. In addi-\par
tion, the direction of each dislocation was estimated by finding the direction of the vector con-\par
necting the two atoms in the group that were farthest apart. The angles between the dislocation\par
lines and the displacement direction, for the moving dislocations detected by the CMG method\par
at the end of all 500 cycles, were collected into a histogram, shown in figure 8. It is seen that\par
these angles are mostly less than 30\u9702? . This is characteristic of dislocations with a dominant\par
screw-type component (see figure 5), including pure and dissociated screw dislocations.\par
    Additionally, the locations of the moving dislocations in the 500 cycles of second-stage\par
creep were analyzed. All 32 183 moving dislocations, with no exception, were found to be\par
within or adjacent to GBs, rather than moving across a grain. We conclude that creep in the\par
simulated sample was affected by GB mobility, with no contribution of intragranular disloca-\par
tion activity. This finding is in line with previous studies of NC Cu which suggested, based on\par
measured dislocation densities within grains, that GB mobility is the dominant mechanism of\par
plastic deformation when the grains are smaller than \u8764?10 nm [10, 31\u8211?35].\par
\par
                                                     7\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                                  N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Figure 7. GBs and moving dislocations in a 10 \u197? wide slab along the (111) plane of a\par
                  Voronoi-tessellated 0.9% solute Cu-V NC, subjected to IIC. The black atoms belong to\par
                  the eight moving dislocations within this slab, out of a total of 70 moving dislocations\par
                  in the whole NC.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Figure 8. Histogram of the angle between the estimated dislocation orientation and the\par
                  direction of greatest displacement in the dislocation, in all dislocations detected by the\par
                  CMG algorithm in 500 cycles of IIC. The histogram contains 40 bins.\par
\par
\par
\par
    Finally, the contribution of the moving dislocations to the linear strain of the sample was\par
estimated, by summing the atoms within the groups, and comparing the result to the change\par
in the dimensions of the simulation box. It was found that, after the first 250 cycles of second-\par
stage creep, there was a strong correlation between the displacements and the box dimensions.\par
Figure 9 shows the cumulative sum of atom displacements as a function of the elongation of\par
the simulation box in the z-axis direction, along which compressive stress was applied. The\par
Pearson correlation coefficient of the two data sets is 0.946, and the p-value under the null\par
hypothesis is 3 \u215? 10\u8722?123 . Initial local relaxation can lead to the formation of back stress, dis-\par
placing atoms in directions other than the compressive axis. This can explain the fact that the\par
correlation begins only after the first 250 cycles. The complete mechanism, by which disloca-\par
tion motion within GBs is translated into global deformation, can be studied further.\par
\par
                                                     8\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                                N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Figure 9. Cumulative sum of atom displacements as a function of the elongation of a\par
                  Voronoi-tessellated 0.9% solute Cu-V NC, subjected to IIC, along the [001] (z axis)\par
                  direction. The sum is divided by the number of atoms in each plane perpendicular to the\par
                  z-axis direction.\par
\par
\par
5. Limitations\par
\par
As shown in the previous sections, the CMG method can be used to detect moving disloca-\par
tions both within grains and at GBs. Its ability to single out the moving dislocations at GBs is\par
significant, because it allows the analysis of NC plasticity near GBs. The method works, fur-\par
thermore, without assuming an underlying crystal structure, thus making it flexible and robust.\par
In this section we list and discuss a few of the limitations of the CMG method. Some of these\par
limitations are inherent, and others remain because the method is still in development.\par
    Slow-moving dislocations. By design, the CMG method only detects moving dislocations.\par
If a dislocation moves slowly, the displacement of atoms between two close time frames might\par
be less than the threshold of detection. The sampling rate of the CMG method must correspond,\par
therefore, to the typical speed of dislocations in the system under inspection.\par
    Dislocation forests. As seen in reference simulation B of section 3 (in which a dissociated\par
screw dislocation was identified as one screw dislocation rather than two partials), the CMG\par
method identifies the motion of proximate dislocations as that of one complex dislocation. This\par
is an inherent feature of the method since it analyzes the displacements of groups of atoms.\par
If the motion of a group of atoms is correlated, they will all belong to the same connected\par
component of the CMG graph. Conversely, if at least N atoms are affected by one dislocation\par
and not others, they will belong to a separate connected component, and will thus be identified\par
as a separate dislocation.\par
    Burgers vector. The CMG method represents atoms as nodes of a binary graph, connected by\par
edges if they are nearby and move in the same (or opposite) direction. If the path on the graph\par
between two atoms is long, their direction of motion might be very different, even though\par
they belong to the same dislocation, see figure 5. The magnitudes of the displacements of\par
atoms, too, vary within one dislocation. Therefore, the detection of a dislocation does not\par
automatically yield its Burgers vector, as is the case, for example, in the DXA. Such analysis\par
is in fact possible, but requires a more detailed study of the specific displacement vectors, and\par
is left for future extension.\par
    Dislocation lines. The CMG method identifies groups of atoms whose positions shift due\par
to moving dislocations, rather than tracing the dislocation lines themselves. In other words,\par
the method will not pinpoint the regions of the crystal lattice around which Burgers circuits\par
\par
                                                     9\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                           N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
fail to close. This can be an advantage when studying the effect of multiple dislocations on\par
the lattice and grain structure of a sample, but might be a disadvantage when studying the\par
velocities of isolated dislocations [28, 36\u8211?38]. The method can be developed to support such\par
studies by improving the accuracy of the identification of the edges of the areas swept by\par
the moving dislocations and incorporating improved static structure criteria. In the current\par
implementation, the velocity of a dislocation might be estimated by calculating the rate of\par
propagation of the center of mass of the atoms that are shifted by its motion.\par
    Misidentification of deformations as dislocations. In metastable scenarios with high ener-\par
gies, the ensuing dynamics may involve correlated motion of chunks of matter, which is not\par
driven by the motion of dislocations. The CMG method does not differentiate between chunks\par
of matter moving together and moving dislocations. This type of scenario can include the ini-\par
tial steps of some simulations, in which the system has not yet relaxed into a low-energy state,\par
and situations in which failure is incipient.\par
\par
\par
6. Conclusions\par
\par
Detailed local study of plasticity in NCs and other structures, containing large populations\par
of defects and dislocations, requires the identification of a small number of moving disloca-\par
tions in complex environments. The CMG method, introduced here, facilitates such studies by\par
identifying correlated displacements due to moving dislocations. This is done by comparing\par
atomic positions at consecutive time frames. The method was applied to quantify and char-\par
acterize displacements due to moving dislocations in a NC undergoing creep, and to estimate\par
the contribution of these dislocations to the NC strain. Using this method, it was shown that\par
all dislocation activity was identified within the GB, with no significant contribution due to\par
intragranular activity.\par
    Although the method now compares two specific time frames, it can be extended to examine\par
multiple time steps. This will allow the calculation of properties such as dislocation drag and\par
velocity, and better filtering of specific dislocation mechanisms. Also, tools can be developed\par
to determine the Burgers vectors of the detected dislocations, to facilitate the study of the types\par
of dislocations that drive plasticity in various settings.\par
    In addition to the study of plasticity in NCs, the CMG method can be used in other settings\par
in conjunction with static structural methods, to discern among dislocations that moved and\par
those that remained stationary. This can include situations in which sessile dislocations become\par
mobile, as a result of reactions induced by stress or radiation. The identification of the onset\par
of dislocation-based displacements, in such settings, can provide information regarding the\par
activation energies and volumes of different types of yield mechanisms.\par
\par
\par
Data availability statement\par
\par
The data that support the findings of this study are openly available at the following URL/DOI:\par
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.10356082.\par
\par
\par
Acknowledgments\par
\par
Computational resources for this study were provided through the ICPL (http://icpl.huji.ac.il).\par
N D F acknowledges support from the Israeli Ministry of Science, Eshkol scholarship 313258.\par
\par
\par
                                                     10\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                         N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
Appendix A. Determining the parameters of the algorithm\par
\par
Table 1 lists the parameters used in the current implementation of the CMG algorithm, and\par
their values in the simulations presented in this manuscript (except in the simulation described\par
in appendix B). In this appendix, we detail how these values were derived.\par
    rmin is used to identify atoms that changed their position between two time frames under\par
comparison. Its value was calculated using the atomic positions at ti = 106.08 ns and tf =\par
106.16 ns from the beginning of the GB simulation of section 4. The magnitudes of the atomic\par
displacements between these time frames were arranged in a histogram and fitted to a \u967? dis-\par
tribution with three degrees of freedom, see figure 10, under the assumption that thermal dis-\par
placements lead to a normal distribution in each spatial dimension. Thus, rmin = 0.7 \u197?, where\par
the displacements noticeably diverge from the \u967?3 distribution, was chosen as the threshold of\par
non-Gaussian motion.\par
    Although the value of rmin can be determined separately for every simulated sample (at\par
every point of time), its calculation yields similar values for a given material and temperature.\par
Thus, the value yielded by the calculation above was used in all the simulations described in\par
this paper, except in that of appendix B.\par
    The next parameter in the CMG algorithm, d, is used to determine the correlation length of\par
atoms moving due to one dislocation. We expect dislocations to affect contiguous groups of\par
atoms, at adjacent positions along the crystal lattice. Therefore, to determine d, we examine a\par
histogram of distances among pairs of atoms in the simulated NC at tf = 106.16 ps, produced\par
by Ovito\u8217?s pair distribution function [23]. d is any value between the two leftmost peaks of\par
the histogram. In our case, as shown in figure 11, it can be d = 3 \u197?. (Once again, choosing a\par
different time frame from the NC simulation, or from the reference simulations, yields similar\par
results.) In general, in fairly ordered crystals, d should have a value between the distances\par
among nearest and next-nearest neighbors.\par
    To estimate the next parameter, cos \u952?max , we consider that two atoms, displaced by the pas-\par
sage of a moving dislocation, should be displaced in the same direction. Typically, for the\par
fcc crystals simulated in this work, the magnitude   \u8730? of this displacement will be equal to the\par
Burgers vector of a partial dislocation, i.e. b = a/ 6 = 1.48 \u197?, where a is the lattice constant\par
in Cu. Thermal motion, however, can cause the directions of the displacements to diverge. This\par
will be most pronounced when the thermal motions of the atoms are in opposite directions,\par
perpendicular to the motion due to the passage of the moving dislocation. We estimated the\par
maximum displacement of thermal motion as rmin , so the maximum angle between the direc-\par
tions of motion of two atoms will be \u952?max = arctan(rmin /b). Therefore, the minimum cosine\par
of the angle between the displacement vectors will be cos \u952?max = 0.9.\par
    The reasoning applied to estimate cos \u952?max assumes an fcc lattice structure with fairly con-\par
sistent atomic spacing, and where partial Shockley dislocations are common. Similar reasoning\par
can be developed in other settings, too, as long as interatomic distances are greater than the\par
typical thermal displacement of atoms. Along these lines, the CMG method may be extended\par
to highly complex systems such as high-entropy alloys.\par
    The last parameter of the CMG algorithm is N, the minimum amount of moving atoms that\par
indicates the passage of a moving dislocation. A large value for this parameter would lead to the\par
misdetection of small moving dislocations. A small value would lead to the false identification\par
of moving point defects as moving dislocations, since there is a motion of atoms around point\par
defects due to relaxation. Under the assumption that not all of the nearest neighbors around a\par
point defect will move in a common direction, we chose N = 12 as the optimal value for the\par
fcc lattices in this work.\par
\par
\par
                                                     11\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                                   N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Table 1. List of parameters of the CMG algorithm.\par
\par
                  Parameter                Description                                                 Value\par
\par
                  rmin                     Threshold of non-Gaussian displacement                      0.7 \u197?\par
                  d                        Maximum distance of nearby atoms                            3\u197?\par
                  cos \u952?max                 Minimum cosine of angle for common motion                   0.9\par
                  N                        Minimum number of atoms in group                            12\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Figure 10. Frequency histogram of the magnitude of the displacement of atoms during\par
                  80 ps, in a simulation of a Cu NC with 0.9% V solute (circles), fitted to a \u967?3 distribution\par
                  (line).\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Figure 11. Pair distribution function of one time frame in a simulation of a Cu NC with\par
                  0.9% V solute.\par
\par
\par
Appendix B. Reference simulation A at 700 K\par
\par
To test the validity of the CMG method at higher temperatures, reference simulation A (see\par
section 3) was rerun at a temperature of 700 K. First, using the procedure described in\par
appendix A and comparing the atomic positions at two different time frames of the simulation,\par
it was found that rmin = 0.9 \u197? and, therefore, cos \u952?max = 0.85. The other two parameters of\par
the algorithm (see table 1) were not changed. Next, the CMG algorithm was run. Figure 12\par
shows the atoms identified as belonging to moving dislocations, when comparing the atomic\par
\par
                                                         12\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                                     N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Figure 12. Dislocation map of reference simulation A rerun at a temperature of 700 K,\par
                  looking along the [001] direction. The initial and final positions of the partial dislocations\par
                  detected by the DXA are shown, with an arrow pointing in the direction of motion.\par
                  The atoms shown in between were identified by the CMG method as atoms that were\par
                  displaced due to the motion of the dislocations.\par
\par
\par
positions at ti = 11 ps and tf = 20 ps from the beginning of the simulation. As in section 3,\par
these time frames were chosen due to the visual clarity of the results of the DXA and the CMG\par
method.\par
    The CMG method singles out atoms that have shifted by more than rmin between time\par
frames, to examine if their motion is due to moving dislocations. rmin itself is determined stat-\par
istically per sample. As the temperature increases, thus widening the \u967?3 distribution of the\par
thermal motion of atoms, the concept of singling out atoms by comparing two frames will\par
become less effective. It can be expected to break down when there is a statistically significant\par
likelihood for atoms to be shifted by a magnitude greater than that of the Burgers vector of\par
the dislocations of interest. We see, however, that at 700 K in the scenarios in this study, this\par
concept continues to be effective. At even higher temperatures, the algorithm might be mod-\par
ified by inspecting the mean coordinates of the atoms of the sample over the time period of\par
interest, thus reducing the effect of Brownian motion on the CMG method.\par
\par
\par
ORCID iDs\par
\par
Eliyahu Zvi Engelberg \u59865? https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1591-4273\par
Yinon Ashkenazy \u59865? https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7976-4534\par
\par
\par
References\par
\par
 [1] Deiter G E Jr 1961 Mechanical Metallurgy (Mcgraw-Hill)\par
 [2] Crimp M A 2006 Scanning electron microscopy imaging of dislocations in bulk materials, using\par
       electron channeling contrast Microsc. Res. Tech. 69 374\par
 [3] Mohamadnejad S, Basti A and Ansari R 2020 Analyses of dislocation effects on plastic deformation\par
       Multiscale Sci. Eng. 2 69\par
 [4] Bertin N, Sills R B and Cai W 2020 Frontiers in the simulation of dislocations Annu. Rev. Mater.\par
       Res. 50 437\par
 [5] Kedharnath A, Kapoor R and Sarkar A 2021 Classical molecular dynamics simulations of the\par
       deformation of metals under uniaxial monotonic loading: a review Comput. Struct. 254 106614\par
\par
                                                      13\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                                N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
 [6] Lau D, Jian W, Yu Z and Hui D 2018 Nano-engineering of construction materials using molecular\par
        dynamics simulations: prospects and challenges Composites B 143 282\par
 [7] Wolf D, Yamakov V, Phillpot S R, Mukherjee A and Gleiter H 2005 Deformation of nanocrystalline\par
        materials by molecular-dynamics simulation: relationship to experiments Acta Mater. 53 1\par
 [8] Malygin G A 2007 Plasticity and strength of micro- and nanocrystalline materials Phys. Solid State\par
        49 1013\par
 [9] Zhang Z, O\u769?dor E\u769?, Farkas D, J\u243?ni B, Rib\u225?rik G, Tichy G, Nandam S-H, Ivanisenko J, Preuss M and\par
        Ung\u225?r T 2020 Dislocations in grain boundary regions: the origin of heterogeneous microstrains\par
        in nanocrystalline materials Metall. Mater. Trans. A 51 513\par
[10] Van Swygenhoven H and Weertman J R 2006 Deformation in nanocrystalline metals Mater. Today\par
        9 24\par
[11] Kelchner C L, Plimpton S J and Hamilton J C 1998 Dislocation nucleation and defect structure\par
        during surface indentation Phys. Rev. B 8 11085\par
[12] Zimmerman J A, Kelchner C L, Klein P A, Hamilton J C and Foiles S M 2001 Surface step effects\par
        on nanoindentation Phys. Rev. Lett. 81 085001\par
[13] Stukowski A and Albe K 2010 Extracting dislocations and non-dislocation crystal defects from\par
        atomistic simulation data Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 18 085001\par
[14] Stukowski A, Bulatov V V and Arsenlis A 2012 Automated identification and indexing of disloca-\par
        tions in crystal interfaces Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 20 085007\par
[15] Stukowski A 2020 Dislocation analysis tool for atomistic simulations Handbook of Materials\par
        Modeling: Methods: Theory and Modeling ed W Andreoni and S Yip (Springer International\par
        Publishing) pp 1545\u8211?58\par
[16] Bin X, Xinyu W, Yongsheng F and Ruizhi L 2022 Atomistic investigation on the strengthening\par
        mechanism of single crystal ni-based superalloy under complex stress states Metals 12 889\par
[17] Fang C, Zhang J and Pan F 2019 First-principles study on solute-basal dislocation interaction in\par
        Mg alloys J. Alloys Compd. 785 911\par
[18] Clark J and Holton D A 1991 A First Look at Graph Theory (World Scientific Publishing)\par
[19] Thompson A P et al 2022 LAMMPS\u8212?a flexible simulation tool for particle-based materials mod-\par
        eling at the atomic, meso and continuum scales Comput. Phys. Commun. 271 108171\par
[20] Mishin Y, Mehl M J, Papaconstantopoulos D A, Voter A F and Kress J D 2001 Structural stability\par
        and lattice defects in copper: ab initio, tight-binding and embedded-atom calculations Phys. Rev.\par
        B 63 224106\par
[21] Mordehai D, Ashkenazy Y, Kelson I and Makov G 2003 Dynamic properties of screw dislocations\par
        in CU: a molecular dynamics study Phys. Rev. B 67 024112\par
[22] Shinoda W, Shiga M and Mikami M 2004 Rapid estimation of elastic constants by molecular\par
        dynamics simulation under constant stress Phys. Rev. B 69 134103\par
[23] Stukowski A 2010 Visualization and analysis of atomistic simulation data with OVITO-the Open\par
        Visualization Tool Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 18 015012\par
[24] Anderson P M, Hirth J P and Lothe J 2017 Theory of Dislocations 3rd edn (Cambridge University\par
        Press)\par
[25] Du Q, Faber V and Gunzburger M 1999 Centroidal Voronoi tessellations: applications and\par
        algorithms SIAM Rev. 41 637\par
[26] Frenkel D and Smit B 2008 Understanding Molecular Simulation (Academic)\par
[27] Demkowicz M J, Bhattacharyya D, Usov I, Wang Y Q, Nastasi M and Misra A 2010 The effect of\par
        excess atomic volume on He bubble formation at fcc\u8211?bcc interfaces Appl. Phys. Lett. 97 161903\par
[28] Ashkenazy Y and Averback R S 2012 Irradiation induced grain boundary flow\u8212?a new creep mech-\par
        anism at the nanoscale Nano Lett. 12 4084\par
[29] This includes 562 perfect dislocations, 1619 Shockley dislocations, 60 stair-rod dislocations, 61\par
        Frank dislocations, and 29 Hirth dislocations\par
[30] These results, and those of the DXA, are typical of all the time frames and cycles in which meas-\par
        urements were taken. The CMG method identified an average of 64.3 moving dislocations over\par
        all cycles\par
[31] Schi\u248?tz J, Vegge T, Di Tolla F D and Jacobsen K W 1999 Atomic-scale simulations of the mech-\par
        anical deformation of nanocrystalline metals Phys. Rev. B 60 11971\par
[32] Van Swygenhoven H, Caro A and Farkas D 2001 A molecular dynamics study of polycrystalline\par
        fcc metals at the nanoscale: grain boundary structure and its influence on plastic deformation\par
        Mater. Sci. Eng. A 309\u8211?310 440\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                     14\par
Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (2024) 055003                             N Dimanstein Firman et al\par
\par
\par
\par
[33] Schi\u248?tz J 2004 Atomic-scale modeling of plastic deformation of nanocrystalline copper Scr. Mater.\par
       51 837\par
[34] Farkas D and Curtin W A 2005 Plastic deformation mechanisms in nanocrystalline columnar grain\par
       structures Mater. Sci. Eng. A 412 316\par
[35] Farkas D, Mohanty S and Monk J 2008 Strain-driven grain boundary motion in nanocrystalline\par
       materials Mater. Sci. Eng. A 493 33\par
[36] Olmsted D L, Hector L G Jr, Curtin W A and Clifton R J 2005 Atomistic simulations of dislocation\par
       mobility in Al, Ni and Al/Mg alloys Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 13 371\par
[37] Dang K, Bamney D, Bootsita K, Capolungo L and Spearot D E 2019 Mobility of dislocations\par
       in aluminum: faceting and asymmetry during nanoscale dislocation shear loop expansion Acta\par
       Mater. 168 426\par
[38] Shen Y and Spearot D E 2021 Mobility of dislocations in FeNiCrCoCu high entropy alloys\par
       Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 29 085017\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                     15\par

}