{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
                                                                                                       www.nature.com/scientificdata\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
               OPEN            Dislocation-Grain Boundary\par
Data Descriptor                Interaction Dataset for FCC Cu\par
                               Khanh Dang 1, Sumit Suresh2, Avanish Mishra                  3\par
                                                                                                , Ian Chesser4, Nithin Mathew3,\par
                               Edward M. Kober3 & Saryu Fensin2 \u9993?\par
\par
                               Interactions between dislocations and grain boundaries play a major role in controlling the strength\par
                               and ductility of structural materials. Experimentally, assessing and probing geometric and stress-based\par
                               criteria at the local level for dislocation transmission through grain boundaries remains challenging.\par
                               Therefore, there have been many efforts to systematically generate datasets of dislocation-grain\par
                               boundary interactions (DGI) via computational models such as molecular dynamics simulations. So\par
                               far, most DGI datasets have focused only on the subset of nominal minimum-energy grain boundary\par
                               structures, which limits their applicability, especially to materials processed far from equilibrium. We\par
                               present a comprehensive database of dislocation-grain boundary interactions for edge, screw, and 60\u176?\par
                               mixed dislocation with 330 <110> and 257 <112> symmetric tilt grain boundaries (total of 587) in\par
                               FCC Cu consisting of 73 minimum-energy grain boundary structures and 514 metastable structures.\par
                               The dataset contains the outcomes for 5234 unique interactions for various dislocation types, grain\par
                               boundary structures, and applied shear stresses.\par
\par
\par
\par
                               Background & Summary\par
                               Designing structural alloys with both high strength and excellent ductility remains one of the grand challenges\par
                               in materials science and engineering. One strategy that has proven effective in certain alloys is known as grain\par
                               boundary (GB) engineering, which involves manipulating the GB network via the introduction of high densities\par
                               of specific GBs such as coherent twin boundaries1\u8211?3. At the core of this strategy is the role that GB structure\par
                               plays in determining the outcome of dislocation-GB interactions (DGI). For a similar applied stress state, some\par
                               boundaries may block or absorb dislocations, leading to strain localization, while other boundaries promote\par
                               transmission. As a result, the DGIs alter the strength and ductility of a material depending on the volume frac-\par
                               tion of boundary types in the material4\u8211?6.\par
                                   Macroscopically, the Hall-Petch relationship hypothesizes that material strength can be increased by decreas-\par
                               ing the grain size due to an enhanced effect of dislocation blockage (which we refer to as pinning) as the density\par
                               of GBs is increased7. This relationship captures the effects of average grain size on yield strength without con-\par
                               sidering local GB structure. There are many situations where local GB structure impacts mechanical behavior,\par
                               especially far from equilibrium. For instance, Fensin et al. showed that only certain boundaries can avoid void\par
                               nucleation under shock loading by dissipating stress through plastic deformation8. Simulations and experiments\par
                               of irradiated metals demonstrate that non-equilibrium GB structures may have a higher sink efficiency than\par
                               well-annealed GBs9,10. Other examples of the impact of GB metastability on mechanical behavior can be found\par
                               in a recent review11.\par
                                   For DGI, the role of GB structure on the dislocation transmissibility remains unknown despite many exper-\par
                               imental, theoretical, and computational efforts over the past few decades. Microscopic geometric and stress\par
                               criteria for dislocation transmission through grain boundaries, such as minimizing the angle between the inter-\par
                               section lines of the incoming and outgoing dislocations or maximizing the resolved shear stress on the outgoing\par
                               slip system, have been proposed and experimentally validated6. One of the commonly utilized geometric param-\par
                               eters for examining slip or dislocation transmission across GB is m\u8242?, which assesses the slip system degree of\par
                               coplanarity12. However, similar to the Hall-Petch relationship, these criteria fail to capture the role of GB struc-\par
                               ture and the local atomic arrangement on GB-dislocation interactions.\par
\par
                               1\par
                                 Materials Science and Technology Division, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, 87544,\par
                               USA. 2Materials Physics and Applications Division, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico,\par
                               87544, USA. 3Theoretical Division, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, 87544, USA.\par
                               4\par
                                X Computational Physics Division, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, 87544, USA. \u9993?e-mail:\par
                               saryuj@lanl.gov\par
\par
\par
  Scientific Data |   (2025) 12:955 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-05256-6                                                                 1\par
www.nature.com/scientificdata/                                                                       www.nature.com/scientificdata\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                             Fig. 1 Workflow to generate the DGI database.\par
\par
\par
                                 The lack of high-fidelity DGI datasets with details about dislocation type, applied stress, and, most impor-\par
                             tantly, diverse GB structures, inhibits our ability to construct more accurate models for GB-dislocation interac-\par
                             tions. Experimentally, it remains challenging to systematically and efficiently generate these datasets.\par
                             Computationally, most DGI datasets are limited in the number of data points since these have previously\par
                             focused only on a subset of grain boundary structures or dislocation types13\u8211?18. For instance, Cheng et al.13 stud-\par
                             ied the interactions between edge dislocations and [110] symmetric tilt grain boundaries (STGBs) such as \u931?\par
                             3(112), \u931?9(114), and \u931?9(221) in W. While this study found that the DGIs depend on the grain boundary struc-\par
                             ture and the exact location of the interaction within the grain boundary, it was challenging to propose a new\par
                             criterion for slip transmission due to limited data. Moreover, it is unfeasible to merge different DGI datasets into\par
                             a comprehensive one since boundary conditions usually vary and significantly affect the simulation results19.\par
                             Recent efforts to generate large datasets of GB structures by atomistic simulations have served as foundations to\par
                             further drive the research in DGI20\u8211?22. For example, one of the most cited datasets of computed GB structures\par
                             and properties is by Olmsted et al.20. This dataset contains 388 unique minimum-energy GB structures of Ni and\par
                             Al and their corresponding energies. A subset of this dataset (33 different FCC Ni bicrystals) was utilized for a\par
                             DGI study18. It was found that the minimum residual Burgers vector and the disorientation angle between the\par
                             two grains are strong indicators of DGI transmissibility. However, the GB structures in these previous studies\par
                             were simplified by choosing the minimum energy configurations, which are not necessarily observed in experi-\par
                             ments. It was shown recently that metastable GB structures (i.e., those which have higher energies than the\par
                             minimum configuration) can alter the outcome of the DGI23,24. Therefore, there is a need for a consistent and\par
                             comprehensive dataset that explores DGI as a function of dislocation character and GB atomic structure.\par
                                 The goal of this work is to fill this gap by establishing a comprehensive database of DGI in Cu as a model FCC\par
                             material. While the trends for the DGI dataset are expected to vary for different material systems, the approach\par
                             described in this work can be adapted for other material systems (especially those with FCC crystal structures). MD\par
                             simulations of DGI are systematically performed for different type of dislocations (edge, screw, and mixed 60\u176?),\par
                             GB structures (330<110 >and 257<112> symmetric tilt GBs with many metastable structures), and applied\par
                             stresses (250, 500, and 750 MPa). Altogether, this database includes 5234 unique dislocation - GB interactions,\par
                             which is the most of its kind currently. This comprehensive DGI database is expected to be useful to train AI/ML\par
                             models to predict DGI as a function of GB structure, dislocation type, and applied stress.\par
\par
                             Methods\par
                             Workflow overview.           The data and simulation workflow used to characterize and obtain DGI via MD simu-\par
                             lations consists of three steps as shown in Fig. 1: (i) First, GB structures (including metastable states) are gener-\par
                             ated using the standard \u947? -surface approach22,25. Dislocation dipoles are constructed using the displacement field\par
                             of an infinitely long dislocation dipole26. Both types of defects are generated via LAMMPS input scripts. (ii)\par
                             Second, dislocations are driven into the GBs under an applied stress19. The DGI outcomes are recorded and\par
                             indexed into a database. Details about the database, such as the parameters needed to reproduce GB structures as\par
                             well as DGI results, are described in the Data Records section. Each step in the workflow is described in more\par
                             detail below.\par
\par
                             Dislocation-grain boundary interactions via molecular dynamics simulations.                                     All\par
                             dislocation-grain boundary interactions in Cu are performed via the open-source simulation software Large-scale\par
                             Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator (LAMMPS)27. The atomic interactions between Cu atoms were\par
                             modeled using an Embedded Atom Method (EAM) interatomic potential developed by Mishin et al.28. This inter-\par
                             atomic potential can accurately reproduce GB and dislocation core structures as well as their corresponding\par
                             energies28. Therefore, it has been widely used in DGI studies23,29,30. The simulation results are manually recorded\par
                             by analyzing atomic snapshots before and after the interaction via the visualization software OVITO and the\par
                             dislocation extraction algorithm (DXA)31. Simulation details about (i) the construction of the GB structure, (ii)\par
                             the DGI simulation setup, and (iii) the determination of the geometrical criteria (m\u8242?) are discussed in greater\par
                             details below.\par
\par
                             Grain boundary structures and energies. Figure 2 shows the simulation setup to generate the dataset. Both\par
                             <110> and <112> STGBs are generated using the \u947? -surface approach22,25. The X direction is always oriented\par
                             along the tilt axes, and the Y direction is normal to the GB plane (which can be found in the database for all\par
                             interactions). Periodic boundary conditions are applied in all three directions to allow for complete control of\par
                             the stress state. This simulation setup has been demonstrated to be efficient for DGI in previous work19. For the\par
\par
\par
Scientific Data |   (2025) 12:955 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-05256-6                                                                  2\par
www.nature.com/scientificdata/                                                                       www.nature.com/scientificdata\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                             Fig. 2 Simulation setup with a bicrystal composed of two symmetric tilt GBs (<112> or <110>). An infinitely\par
                             long dislocation dipole with edge, screw and mixed (60\u176?) character angles is generated in grain 1 using a\par
                             dislocation loop algorithm developed by Dang et al.26 (Disclaimer: the dimensions of the schematics are not\par
                             scaled with the dimensions used in this work).\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                             Fig. 3 Grain boundary energies for all 1000 possible (open circle) and chosen (solid red) grain boundary\par
                             structures for <112> and <110> symmetric tilt grain boundary. Due to the infinitely long dislocation setup,\par
                             the dislocation line has to be aligned with one of the dimensions. As a result, <112> STGB is used to study\par
                             edge dislocation-GB interaction, while <110> STGB can be used to study screw and 60\u176? mixed dislocation-GB\par
                             interaction.\par
\par
\par
                             <110> STGBs, the simulation cell is approximately 1.0 \u215? 100.0 \u215? 48.0 nm3 in the X, Y, and Z directions, respec-\par
                             tively. Similarly, the simulation cell is approximately 1.8 \u215? 150.0 \u215? 80.0 nm3 in the X, Y, and Z directions, respec-\par
                             tively, for the <112> STGBs. This is to ensure that the boundary image force does not affect the results of the\par
                             DGI. Due to varying boundary periodicity, different system sizes may be used for different grain boundary\par
                             structures. The exact values of box sizes can be found in the GB data files.\par
                                  To determine the structure of the tilt boundaries, different starting configurations are considered by translat-\par
                             ing grain 2 relative to grain 1, as shown in Fig. 2. The grain boundary region is defined as a 5 nm thick region\par
                             across the Z direction (with the GB in the center), extending along the periodicity of X and Y directions. The\par
                             grain boundary energy (GBE) is determined by normalizing the excess energy within the grain boundary region\par
                             by the grain boundary area. Compared to previous studies where only minimum-energy structures are chosen,\par
                             this dataset also considers DGI for high-energy metastable grain boundary structures. Figure 3 shows all chosen\par
                             GB structures and their corresponding energies as a function of misorientation angles. For each misorientation\par
                             angle, 1000 initial GB structures are generated. Among them, the ones with GB energies approximately 35 mJ/\par
                             m2 apart are chosen to evaluate interaction with dislocations. Although many GBs are considered in this work,\par
                             it is now well known that grand canonical optimization strategies32 may find structures missed by the standard\par
                             \u947? -surface approach. Such structures could be computed to augment this dataset in the future.\par
\par
                             Dislocation-grain boundary interactions. To model DGIs, an infinitely long edge dislocation dipole is generated\par
                             in Grain 1 of < 112 > STGBs using a dislocation loop algorithm developed by Dang et al.26,33. This same approach\par
                             is used to generate screw and mixed (60\u176?) dislocation dipoles in Grain 1 of < 110 > STGBs. The dipole arm is\par
                             approximately 36 nm to minimize interactions between individual dislocations. The chosen slip systems for the\par
                             edge, screw, and mixed dislocations are [110](111), [011](111) and [110](111), respectively. Since the boundary\par
                             is periodic in all three directions, there are two possible DGIs, of which only the interaction with the center GB\par
                             is analyzed and reported. The dislocation dipole is positioned in a way that the right dislocation is approximately\par
                             10 nm away from the center of the GB region to minimize any short-range interactions initially. The system with\par
                             the dislocation configuration is then equilibrated at 10 K via a Nos\u233?-Hoover style thermostat and barostat34. To\par
\par
\par
Scientific Data |   (2025) 12:955 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-05256-6                                                                  3\par
www.nature.com/scientificdata/                                                                                             www.nature.com/scientificdata\par
\par
\par
                              Attribute                Value Datatype            Description                               Notes\par
                              tx,ty,tz                 Vector                    GB tilt axis [h,k,l]\par
                              nx,ny,nz                 Vector                    GB plane inclination [u,v,w]\par
                                                                                 Indices of grid search over microscopic\par
                              a,b,c                    Vector                                                              Grid spacing of d[h,k,l]/10 for a and b\par
                                                                                 translational degrees of freedom\par
                              d                        Integer                   Crystal chosen to delete atoms\par
                              type                     String                    Dislocation type                          Edge, screw, or mixed\par
                              Applied stress           Decimal                   Applied stress (MPa)\par
                              Misorientation angle     Decimal                   Misorientation angle (degrees)\par
                              Initial Velocity         Integer                   Index of velocity seed\par
                                                                                                                           GB energy of the center grain where the\par
                              GBE                      Decimal                   GB energy (mJ/m2)\par
                                                                                                                           interaction happens\par
                              Reaction                 Integer                   Dislocation-GB reaction label             See Table 2 for reaction categories\par
\par
                             Table 1. Details of the attributes and values contained in the Dislocation-GB interaction dataset.\par
\par
\par
                                           Reaction\par
                              0            Undefined\par
                              1            Absorbed/Pinned\par
                              2            Partially transmitted\par
                              3            Fully transmitted\par
                              4            Reflected\par
\par
                             Table 2. Dislocation-GB reaction labels.\par
\par
\par
                              Slip plane                       Slip directions\par
                              (1,1,1)                          [0,1, \u8722?1], [ \u8722? 1,0,1], [1, \u8722?1,0]\par
                              (1, \u8722?1, \u8722?1)                      [0, \u8722?1,1], [ \u8722? 1,0, \u8722?1], [1,1,0]\par
                              (\u8722? 1, \u8722?1,1)                      [0, \u8722?1, \u8722?1], [1,0,1], [ \u8722? 1,1,0]\par
                              (\u8722? 1,1, \u8722?1)                      [0,1,1], [1,0, \u8722?1], [ \u8722? 1, \u8722?1,0]\par
\par
\par
                             Table 3. 12 slip systems for FCC materials considered for calculating the m\u8242? parameter. For each plane, there are\par
                             three slip directions, resulting in 12 possible slip systems.\par
\par
\par
\par
                             allow for comparison between different DGIs, a uniform stress state of pure resolved shear stress acting on the\par
                             slip plane in the slip direction (pure Schmid stress) is applied in all cases19. Based on this local resolved shear\par
                             stress, the macroscopically applied stress is determined for each DGI using a standard stress transformation\par
                             operation. Three resolved shear stresses of 250, 500, and 750 MPa to glide the dislocation toward the GB are\par
                             chosen to assess the effect of the driving force on the DGI. The DGI database also includes data for higher shear\par
                             stress of 1 and 1.5 GPa for some <112> STGB where all DGI results are dislocation reflections from the GB at\par
                             lower applied stress. Four different initial locations of the dislocation are also considered for <112> STGB.\par
                             Moreover, the database also includes a subset of <110> STGBs where each interaction is repeated three times\par
                             with different random initial atom velocities within a thermal distribution to determine if the results are statis-\par
                             tically meaningful. The integration timestep in all simulations is 2 fs.\par
\par
                             Geometrical criteria for DGI. To assist in the training of a future AI/ML model,\par
                                                                                                                m\u8242? values for all possible DGIs\par
                             are also included. To compute m\u8242?, the slip plane normal (n ) and slip direction ( d ) are projected onto the respec-\par
                                                                                             \par
                             tive grains using their orientation matrix. For example, ng = n \u183? g and dg = d \u183? g .\par
\par
                                                                                       m\u8242? = (ng 1 \u183? ng 2 )(dg 1 \u183? dg 2 )                                             (1)\par
                                 Here, ng 1 \u183? ng 2 measures the angle between slip planes normals, and dg 1 \u183? dg 2 the angle between slip direc-\par
                             tions. A m\u8242? of 1 suggests that the GB is transparent to dislocation, leading to effortless dislocation transmission,\par
                             hence, no strengthening effect. A m\u8242? of 0 indicates no transmission across the GB but perhaps dislocation\par
                             absorption or pinning at the GB. A negative value of m\u8242? highlights the different directions between slip plane\par
                             normals and slip plane directions. The first step for calculating m\u8242? involves constructing the orientation matrix\par
                             g for both grains. The symmetric tilt direction and GB plane are along the X and Y directions\par
                                                                                                                             of the orientation\par
                             matrix for the first grain ( g1, where dislocation is inserted), and their cross-product ( X \u215? Y ) is used to define\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Scientific Data |   (2025) 12:955 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-05256-6                                                                                        4\par
www.nature.com/scientificdata/                                                                        www.nature.com/scientificdata\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                             Fig. 4 Heatmaps showing the distribution of m\u8242? values across all possible slip systems for (a) <110> symmetric\par
                             tilt grain boundary (GB) with a misorientation angle of 109.47\u176? and (1,1,1) GB plane, and (b) <112>\par
                             symmetric tilt GB with a misorientation angle of 11.66\u176? and (11,13,1) GB plane. Panels (c,d) show contour plots\par
                             of the m\u8242? values as functions of angular orientations of slip-plane normals and slip directions corresponding to\par
                             cases (a,b), respectively. The background contour plots, using a jet colormap, illustrate the full range of possible\par
                             m\u8242? values for FCC slip systems, covering angles from 0\u176? to 180\u176? for both slip directions and slip-plane normals.\par
                             Black scatter points indicate the calculated m\u8242? values specific to the GB configurations presented in panels (a,b).\par
\par
\par
\par
                             the Z-direction. The misorientation angle (\u920?) is used to derive the orientation matrix for the second grain ( g 2).\par
                             The following are two examples for calculating the m\u8242? value for <110> and <112> symmetric tilts.\par
                                The misorientation angle, \u920?, between g1 and g 2 is calculated by constructing \u8710?g = g 2 \u183? g1\u8722?1 and\par
                             \u920? = cos\u8722?1   (     2      )\par
                                          Trace (\u8710? g ) \u8722? 1\par
                                                           . The 12 slip systems mentioned in Table 3 are considered for calculating the m\u8242? param-\par
                             eter. These angles are used to plot the distribution showing possible m\u8242? values for slip transmission. For all 12 slip\par
                             systems mentioned in Table 3, Eq. 1 gives 144 m\u8242? values. However, a note should be made that the stress in the\par
                             first grain is applied in such a way that only one slip system is activated. Therefore, only 12 m\u8242? values would be of\par
                             interest to examine the DGI based on the geometrical criteria. The database includes a total of 31 distinct <110 >\par
                             symmetric tilt grain boundaries that have different misorientation angles or (minimum energy structures) and\par
                             similarly 42 distinct <112> symmetric tilt structures. Note that these values do not change for metastable\par
                             boundaries. Hence, this highlights the importance of considering metastable GB structure for DGI. For each\par
                             case, m\u8242? values for slip transmission are calculated for all 144 combinations and plotted as a heatmap, which can\par
                             be found in the heatmap excel spreadsheets in the Materials Cloud Archive repository35. Figure 4 shows example\par
                             for <110> symmetric tilt with (1,1,1) GB plane and <112> symmetric tilt with (11,13,1) GB plane.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Scientific Data |   (2025) 12:955 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-05256-6                                                                   5\par
www.nature.com/scientificdata/                                                                      www.nature.com/scientificdata\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                             Fig. 5 Visualization of the DGI outcome database for <110> and <112>.\par
\par
\par
\par
                             Data Records\par
                             The raw simulation data is not included in the database due to its inherently large size. Instead, the input files\par
                             and the GB structures to reproduce these results are included in the template.zip file that can be retrieved from\par
                             the Materials Cloud Archive repository35. Specifically, each misorientation contains subfolders of different GB\par
                             structures whose folder name is their GB energy. For each GB structure, there are two folders named \u8220?screw\u8221?\par
                             and \u8220?mixed\u8221? for screw and 60\u176? mixed dislocations, respectively. Each of these folders contains LAMMPS input\par
                             and data files to reproduce the dislocation-GB interactions. The dislocation-GB dataset of <110> and <112>\par
                             STGBs in Cu is reported in DisGBDatabase.xlsx and can be retrieved from the Materials Cloud Archive reposi-\par
                             tory35. The dataset contains 5234 unique dislocation-GB interaction entries (rows or data points). All the attrib-\par
                             utes (column headers) for these entries and their descriptions are listed in Table 1. The attributes \u8216?tx,ty,tz\u8217? and\par
                             \u8216?nx,ny,nz\u8217? define the orientation of the GB tilt axis and plane normal, respectively. These values represent the\par
                             macroscopic degree of freedom of the GB structure. Based on this, for each of the GB families, one can deter-\par
                             mine the \u8216?misorientation angle\u8217? attribute. On the other hand, the attributes \u8216?a,b,c\u8217? represents the indices of the\par
                             grid search for the microscopic degrees of freedom for the local grain boundary structures. Attribute \u8216?type\u8217? rep-\par
                             resents the type of incoming lattice dislocation. It can be either edge, screw, or 60\u176? mixed dislocations. Attribute\par
                             \u8216?applied stress\u8217? indicates the Schmid applied stress (pure shear stress in the slip direction on the slip plane) to\par
                             drive the dislocation toward the GB. Attribute \u8216?GBE\u8217? details the GB energy corresponding to the center grain\par
                             where the interaction happens. Finally, the attribute \u8216?reaction\u8217? describes the outcome of the interaction. Based\par
                             on simulation results manually analyzed via DXA in OVITO, the results are manually binned in one of the\par
                             following outcomes: (1) dislocation reflection from the GB, (2) dislocation absorption/pinning at the GB, (3)\par
                             dislocation partially transmitted through the GB when only leading partial can transmit and trailing partial is\par
                             pinned at the GB, or (4) dislocation fully transmitted through the GB. The outcome of DGI can also be unde-\par
                             fined if different outcomes occur simultaneously.\par
                             Technical Validation\par
                             Comparison with previous MD simulations.                 Figure 5 shows the summary of the DGI outcomes for\par
                             this database. For edge dislocations, very few transmissions are observed, even at the applied stress of 750 MPa.\par
                             Moreover, about 20 to 30% of edge dislocation was reflected/repelled from the GB. As the applied stress increased,\par
                             more edge dislocations get absorbed into the <112> GB instead of repelling. For screw and mixed dislocation\par
                             interactions with <110> tilt boundaries, the propensity to transmit (both partial and full transmission) increases\par
                             with increasing applied shear stress. The results from this database show that the dislocation transmissibility\par
                             generally follows: screw > mixed > edge.\par
                                 Figure 6 plots the results of DGIs for different applied stress, dislocation types, misorientation angles, GB\par
                             types, and GBE. From this plot, the transmission and repulsion cluster of data can be observed. This indicates\par
                             that macroscopic factors such as the misorientation angles are important to DGI. Overall, higher misorientation\par
                             angles make slip transmission more difficult, which was supported by many previous experimental results5,36\u8211?38.\par
                             For the same misorientation angle, there are metastable GBs with different structures and corresponding GBEs\par
                             whose reactions are different from each other23. Importantly, the effects are more evident for high applied shear\par
                             stresses (500 and 750 MPa). Together, this indicates that microscopic parameters such as the GB local structures\par
                             and dislocation types are also important to the outcomes of the DGIs.\par
\par
\par
Scientific Data |   (2025) 12:955 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-05256-6                                                                 6\par
www.nature.com/scientificdata/                                                                                     www.nature.com/scientificdata\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                             Fig. 6 DGI outcome database for different dislocation types, applied stress, misorientation angles, as well\par
                             as <110> and<112> STGBs at fixed initial velocity and dislocation-GB interaction site. Each data point\par
                             represents a dislocation-GB interaction where the color represents the outcome. Red is undefined results,\par
                             orange is reflection of the dislocation from the GB, black is pinning and/or absorption of the dislocation into\par
                             the GB, blue is transmission of the leading partial dislocation through the GB, and green is transmission of both\par
                             leading and trailing dislocations through the GB.\par
\par
\par
                                 To further validate the database, DGI results for two of the most well-studied grain boundaries were checked.\par
                             They are the coherent and incoherent twin boundary (CTB and ITB, respectively) (misorientation angles of\par
                             70.5\u176? and 109.5\u176? as shown in Fig. 6, respectively) with simple structures and important role in deformation29,30.\par
                             Indeed, our results show that the screw dislocation absorbs into the minimum-energy CTB similar to previous\par
                             atomistic simulations using the same interatomic potentials29,30 and experiments where the coherent TB can\par
                             absorb the dislocation, thus providing resistance to slip transmission30. Furthermore, our variations in disloca-\par
                             tion transmission and pinning when 60\u176? mixed dislocations interact with ITB depending on the interaction sites\par
                             are also consistent with previous MD simulations39,40.\par
                                 Interestingly, in Fig. 6, the first-row data indicate that for a 109\u176? misorientation GB, screw dislocation\par
                             transmission occurs at 250 MPa, but not at 500 MPa. These results demonstrated that the outcome of the\par
                             dislocation-GB interaction for each interaction can be statistically varying. Indeed, for the case where transmis-\par
                             sion occurs at 250 MPa, the simulations were repeated twice with different initial sampling of the starting veloc-\par
                             ities. In both cases, the transmission does not occur, which is consistent with observation for higher stress at 500\par
                             and 750 MPa. These results further highlight the importance of including statistical variation in generating MD\par
                             simulation dataset, which was done in this work.\par
\par
                             Code availability\par
                             The input files and the GB structures to reproduce these results are included in the template.zip file that can be\par
                             retrieved from the Materials Cloud Archive repository35.\par
\par
                             Received: 20 February 2025; Accepted: 19 May 2025;\par
                             Published: xx xx xxxx\par
\par
                             References\par
                              1. Lu, K., Lu, L. & Suresh, S. Strengthening Materials by Engineering Coherent Internal Boundaries at the Nanoscale. Science (1979)\par
                                 324, 349\u8211?352, https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1159610 (2009).\par
                              2. Lin, Y., Pan, J., Zhou, H. F., Gao, H. J. & Li, Y. Mechanical properties and optimal grain size distribution profile of gradient grained\par
                                 nickel. Acta Mater 153, 279\u8211?289, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2018.04.065 (2018).\par
\par
\par
\par
Scientific Data |   (2025) 12:955 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-05256-6                                                                                         7\par
www.nature.com/scientificdata/                                                                                       www.nature.com/scientificdata\par
\par
\par
                              3. Zhu, Y. et al. Ultrastrong nanotwinned titanium alloys through additive manufacturing. Nat Mater 21, 1258\u8211?1262, https://doi.\par
                                 org/10.1038/s41563-022-01359-2 (2022).\par
                              4. Liu, W. et al. Dislocation-grain boundary interaction in metallic materials: Competition between dislocation transmission and\par
                                 dislocation source activation. J Mech Phys Solids 145, 104158, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmps.2020.104158 (2020).\par
                              5. Kacher, J., Eftink, B. P., Cui, B. & Robertson, I. M. Dislocation interactions with grain boundaries. Curr Opin Solid State Mater Sci 18,\par
                                 227\u8211?243, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cossms.2014.05.004 (2014).\par
                              6. Javaid, F., Pouriayevali, H. & Durst, K. Dislocation\u8211?grain boundary interactions: recent advances on the underlying mechanisms\par
                                 studied via nanoindentation testing. J Mater Res 36, 2545\u8211?2557, https://doi.org/10.1557/s43578-020-00096-z (2021).\par
                              7. Hansen, N. Hall\u8211?Petch relation and boundary strengthening. Scr Mater 51, 801\u8211?806, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.\par
                                 scriptamat.2004.06.002 (2004).\par
                              8. Fensin, S. J., Cerreta, E. K., Gray, G. T. III & Valone, S. M. Why are some Interfaces in Materials Stronger than others? Sci Rep 4, 5461,\par
                                 https://doi.org/10.1038/srep05461 (2014).\par
                              9. Vetterick, G. A. et al. Achieving Radiation Tolerance through Non-Equilibrium Grain Boundary Structures. Sci Rep 7, 12275,\par
                                 https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-12407-2 (2017).\par
                             10. El-Atwani, O. et al. Grain boundary metastability controls irradiation resistance in nanocrystalline metals (2024).\par
                             11. He, M., Wang, Y. & Fan, Y. Metastable grain boundaries: the roles of structural and chemical disorders in their energetics, non-\par
                                 equilibrium kinetic evolution, and mechanical behaviors. Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 36, 343001, https://doi.\par
                                 org/10.1088/1361-648X/ad4aab (2024).\par
                             12. Luster, J. & Morris, M. A. Compatibility of deformation in two-phase Ti-Al alloys: Dependence on microstructure and orientation\par
                                 relationships. Metallurgical and Materials Transactions A 26, 1745\u8211?1756, https://doi.org/10.1007/BF02670762 (1995).\par
                             13. Cheng, Y., Mrovec, M. & Gumbsch, P. Atomistic simulations of interactions between the 1/2<111> edge dislocation and symmetric\par
                                 tilt grain boundaries in tungsten. Philosophical Magazine 88, 547\u8211?560, https://doi.org/10.1080/14786430801894577 (2008).\par
                             14. Dewald, M. & Curtin, W. A. Multiscale modeling of dislocation/grain-boundary interactions: III. 60\u176? dislocations impinging on \u931?3,\par
                                 \u931?9 and \u931?11 tilt boundaries in Al. Model Simul Mat Sci Eng 19, 055002, https://doi.org/10.1088/0965-0393/19/5/055002 (2011).\par
                             15. Bachurin, D. V., Weygand, D. & Gumbsch, P. Dislocation\u8211?grain boundary interaction in <111> textured thin metal films. Acta\par
                                 Mater 58, 5232\u8211?5241, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2010.05.037 (2010).\par
                             16. Ezaz, T., Sangid, M. D. & Sehitoglu, H. Energy barriers associated with slip\u8211?twin interactions. Philosophical Magazine 91, 1464\u8211?1488,\par
                                 https://doi.org/10.1080/14786435.2010.541166 (2011).\par
                             17. Li, L., Liu, L. & Shibutani, Y. Defect interaction summary between edge dislocations and &lt;112&gt;-axis symmetric tilt grain\par
                                 boundaries in copper on activation barriers and critical stresses. Int J Plast 149, 103153, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijplas.2021.103153\par
                                 (2022).\par
                             18. Adams, D. W., Fullwood, D. T., Wagoner, R. H. & Homer, E. R. Atomistic survey of grain boundary-dislocation interactions in FCC\par
                                 nickel. Comput Mater Sci 164, 171\u8211?185, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.commatsci.2019.04.007 (2019).\par
                             19. Suresh, S., Dang, K. & Fensin, S. J. Sensitivity of Dislocation-GB interactions to simulation setups in atomistic models. Comput\par
                                 Mater Sci 221, 112085, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.commatsci.2023.112085 (2023).\par
                             20. Olmsted, D. L., Foiles, S. M. & Holm, E. A. Survey of computed grain boundary properties in face-centered cubic metals: I. Grain\par
                                 boundary energy. Acta Mater 57, 3694\u8211?3703, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2009.04.007 (2009).\par
                             21. Homer, E. R. et al. Examination of computed aluminum grain boundary structures and energies that span the 5D space of\par
                                 crystallographic character. Acta Mater 234, 118006, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2022.118006 (2022).\par
                             22. Tschopp, M. A., Coleman, S. P. & McDowell, D. L. Symmetric and asymmetric tilt grain boundary structure and energy in Cu and\par
                                 Al (and transferability to other fcc metals). Integr Mater Manuf Innov 4, 176\u8211?189, https://doi.org/10.1186/s40192-015-0040-1\par
                                 (2015).\par
                             23. Dang, K. et al. Interplay between dislocation type and local structure in dislocation-twin boundary reactions in Cu. Phys Rev Mater\par
                                 8, 063604, https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevMaterials.8.063604 (2024).\par
                             24. Page, D. E., Fullwood, D. T., Wagoner, R. H. & Homer, E. R. Atomistic simulations of incident dislocation interactions with nickel\par
                                 grain boundaries. Model Simul Mat Sci Eng 32, 075006, https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-651X/ad6eab (2024).\par
                             25. Fensin, S. J., Asta, M. & Hoagland, R. G. Temperature dependence of the structure and shear response of a \u931?11 asymmetric tilt grain\par
                                 boundary in copper from molecular-dynamics. Philosophical Magazine 92, 4320\u8211?4333, https://doi.org/10.1080/14786435.2012.705\par
                                 911 (2012).\par
                             26. Dang, K., Capolungo, L. & Spearot, D. E. Nanoscale dislocation shear loops at static equilibrium and finite temperature. Model Simul\par
                                 Mat Sci Eng 25, 085014, https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-651X/aa9390 (2017).\par
                             27. Thompson, A. P. et al. LAMMPS - a flexible simulation tool for particle-based materials modeling at the atomic, meso, and\par
                                 continuum scales. Comput Phys Commun 271, 108171, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2021.108171 (2022).\par
                             28. Mishin, Y., Mehl, M. J., Papaconstantopoulos, D. A., Voter, A. F. & Kress, J. D. Structural stability and lattice defects in copper: Ab\par
                                 initio, tight-binding, and embedded-atom calculations. Phys Rev B 63, 224106, https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.63.224106 (2001).\par
                             29. Jin, Z.-H. et al. The interaction mechanism of screw dislocations with coherent twin boundaries in different face-centred cubic\par
                                 metals. Scr Mater 54, 1163\u8211?1168, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scriptamat.2005.11.072 (2006).\par
                             30. Chassagne, M., Legros, M. & Rodney, D. Atomic-scale simulation of screw dislocation/coherent twin boundary interaction in Al,\par
                                 Au, Cu and Ni. Acta Mater 59, 1456\u8211?1463, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2010.11.007 (2011).\par
                             31. Stukowski, A. Visualization and analysis of atomistic simulation data with OVITO\u8211?the Open Visualization Tool. Model Simul Mat\par
                                 Sci Eng 18, 015012, https://doi.org/10.1088/0965-0393/18/1/015012 (2010).\par
                             32. Chen, E., Heo, T. W., Wood, B. C., Asta, M. & Frolov, T. Grand canonically optimized grain boundary phases in hexagonal close-\par
                                 packed titanium. Nat Commun 15, 7049, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-51330-9 (2024).\par
                             33. Dang K., Bamney D., Bootsita K., Capolungo L. & Spearot D. E. Mobility of dislocations in Aluminum: Faceting and asymmetry\par
                                 during nanoscale dislocation shear loop expansion, Acta Mater 168, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2019.02.034 (2019).\par
                             34. Melchionna, S., Ciccotti, G. & Lee Holian, B. Hoover NPT dynamics for systems varying in shape and size. Mol Phys 78, 533\u8211?544,\par
                                 https://doi.org/10.1080/00268979300100371 (1993).\par
                             35. Dang, K. et al. Dislocation-grain boundary interaction dataset for FCC Cu, (2025). https://archive.materialscloud.org/\par
                                 record/2025.65 (accessed May 26, 2025).\par
                             36. Livingston, J. D. & Chalmers, B. Multiple slip in bicrystal deformation. Acta Metallurgica 5, 322\u8211?327, https://doi.org/10.1016/0001-\par
                                 6160(57)90044-5 (1957).\par
                             37. Shen, Z., Wagoner, R. H. & Clark, W. A. T. Dislocation and grain boundary interactions in metals. Acta Metallurgica 36, 3231\u8211?3242,\par
                                 https://doi.org/10.1016/0001-6160(88)90058-2 (1988).\par
                             38. Lee, T. C., Robertson, I. M. & Birnbaum, H. K. Prediction of slip transfer mechanisms across grain boundaries. Scripta Metallurgica\par
                                 23, 799\u8211?803, https://doi.org/10.1016/0036-9748(89)90534-6 (1989).\par
                             39. Liang, Y. et al. Slip transmission for dislocations across incoherent twin boundary. Scr Mater 166, 39\u8211?43, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.\par
                                 scriptamat.2019.02.042 (2019).\par
                             40. Ma, T. et al. Dislocation transmission across \u931?3\{112\} incoherent twin boundary: a combined atomistic and phase-field study. Acta\par
                                 Mater 223, 117447, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2021.117447 (2022).\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Scientific Data |   (2025) 12:955 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-05256-6                                                                                           8\par
www.nature.com/scientificdata/                                                                      www.nature.com/scientificdata\par
\par
\par
                             Acknowledgements\par
                             Research presented in this work was fully supported by the Laboratory Directed Research and Development\par
                             program of Los Alamos National Laboratory, United States under Grant No. 20210036DR, \u8220?Investigating How\par
                             Material\u8217?s Interfaces and Dislocations Affect Strength\u8221? (iMIDAS). This research used resources provided by the\par
                             Los Alamos National Laboratory Institutional Computing Program, which is supported by the U.S. Department\par
                             of Energy National Nuclear Security Administration under Contract No. 89233218CNA000001.\par
\par
                             Author contributions\par
                             S.F. conceived the project, K.D. and S.S. conceived the data acquisition process. K.D., S.S., A.M., I.C. oversaw and\par
                             carried out the data extraction. All authors contributed to the database verification and writing the manuscript.\par
\par
                             Competing interests\par
                             The authors declare no competing interests.\par
\par
                             Additional information\par
                             Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to S.F.\par
                             Reprints and permissions information is available at www.nature.com/reprints.\par
                             Publisher\u8217?s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and\par
                             institutional affiliations.\par
                                          Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-\par
                                          NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribu-\par
                             tion and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s)\par
                             and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed mate-\par
                             rial. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of\par
                             it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article\u8217?s Creative Commons licence,\par
                             unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article\u8217?s Creative\par
                             Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted\par
                             use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit\par
                             http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/.\par
\par
                             \u169? The Author(s) 2025\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Scientific Data |   (2025) 12:955 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-05256-6                                                                 9\par

}