{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
                                                                  Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
\par
                                                                   Contents lists available at ScienceDirect\par
\par
\par
                                                              Extreme Mechanics Letters\par
                                                           journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/eml\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Dislocation descriptors of low and high angle grain boundaries with\par
convolutional neural networks\par
William Noh , Huck Beng Chew *\par
Department of Aerospace Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801, USA\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
A R T I C L E I N F O                                     A B S T R A C T\par
\par
Keywords:                                                 Multiscale modeling of plasticity in polycrystalline metals is a long-standing challenge in part because of the lack\par
Grain boundary dislocation                                of an accepted grain boundary descriptor, which has hindered the bridging of scales between atomistic simu\u173?\par
Dislocation core                                          lations and meso-scale discrete dislocation dynamics (DDD) models. While grain boundary dislocations (GBDs)\par
Atomistic stress\par
                                                          for low angle grain boundaries can be ascertained by Burgers circuit analyses, the dislocation structures of high\par
Machine learning\par
Molecular dynamics\par
                                                          angle grain boundaries have remained elusive because of overlapping dislocation core fields. Here, we use\par
                                                          convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to establish the locations of GBDs responsible for the misorientations of\par
                                                          <001> symmetrical-tilt Cu grain boundaries, from the local atomistic stress fields modeled with molecular\par
                                                          dynamics (MD) simulations. We achieve accurate CNN predictions of GBDs with sub-angstrom resolution across\par
                                                          an extensive set of low- to high-tilt-angle grain boundaries through a training dataset, generated from super\u173?\par
                                                          posing continuum-representations of the MD stress fields of single dislocations that consider the contributions of\par
                                                          both the Volterra and dislocation core fields. The approach paves the way for dislocation representations of the\par
                                                          atomistic grain boundary structures modeled by MD simulations or density functional theory (DFT) calculations\par
                                                          in mesoscale DDD models to elucidate multiscale plasticity effects.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
1. Introduction                                                                                crystalline lattices are fundamentally created by arrays of intrinsic grain\par
                                                                                               boundary dislocations (GBDs) adjoining the boundary [20,21]. Such\par
    Grain boundaries of polycrystalline metals are among the most well                         dislocation-based grain boundary descriptors, however, are problematic\par
studied but least understood material interfaces. It is now well accepted                      for higher angle grain boundaries. While the atomistic structures of low\par
that plasticity at the macroscale originates from the motion and inter\u173?                        angle grain boundaries are reasonably well-defined by their linear\par
action of dislocations across grains through atomistic mechanisms, such                        elastic displacement fields, the close proximity between GBDs in higher\par
as dislocation absorption, transmission, emission or pile-up at the grain                      angle grain boundaries results in overlapping cores, which cloud the\par
boundaries [1\u8211?3]. Each of these mechanisms is highly sensitive to the                          relationship between the linear elastic fields and the dislocation struc\u173?\par
atomistic structure of the grain boundary, and the structure of the                            ture of the boundary [19]. In addition, resolution of the net or resultant\par
boundary is in turn altered by the ensuing dislocation-grain boundary                          Burgers vector about these high angle grain boundaries into Burgers\par
interactions [4\u8211?10]. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations can capture                           vectors of discrete dislocations is not unique, since one could potentially\par
this continuously evolving atomistic structure of the grain boundary, but                      achieve the same misorientation angle with alternative sets of GBDs [20,\par
upscaling these simulations to the meso-scale through discrete disloca\u173?                        21]. Because of these issues, later studies have described the grain\par
tion dynamics (DDD) models poses a significant challenge since treat\u173?                          boundary as a combination of building blocks or structural units (SUs),\par
ment of the dislocation-grain boundary interactions often rely on a                            with each SU representing particular arrangements of a limited number\par
predefined set of phenomenological rules [11\u8211?16].                                              of atoms [22\u8211?26]. Fundamental properties of the boundary have been\par
    Studies show that the evolving atomistic structure of the grain                            linked to the presence of certain SUs \u8211? for example, the propensity to\par
boundary with dislocation emission, absorption or transmission can be                          emit Shockley partials under tension and compression has been attrib\u173?\par
attributed to its evolving dislocation content [17\u8211?19]. This supports the                      uted to the presence of E- and A-type SUs, respectively, along\par
early notion that the tilt and twist misorientation between two                                symmetrical-tilt <110> grain boundaries [27,28]. More recently,\par
\par
\par
\par
 * Corresponding author.\par
   E-mail address: hbchew@illinois.edu (H.B. Chew).\par
\par
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eml.2024.102138\par
Received 8 December 2023; Received in revised form 6 February 2024; Accepted 19 February 2024\par
Available online 22 February 2024\par
2352-4316/\u169? 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).\par
W. Noh and H.B. Chew                                                                                                        Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
\par
studies have established the local atomistic stress state along a grain              the grain boundary located along the x1 -axis. We displace the top crystal\par
boundary as a representation of the Cauchy stress tensor for the calcu\u173?              laterally with respect to the bottom crystal in 1% increments of the unit\par
lation of continuum traction fields, which ultimately governs the ability            structural length of the grain boundary along the x1 direction, and\par
of grain boundaries to emit, absorb, or transmit dislocations [28\u8211?30].               remove any overlapping atoms. This process is iteratively repeated to\par
Nevertheless, tracking the continuously evolving SUs or traction signa\u173?              generate a multiplicity of possible metastable grain boundary states with\par
tures along each boundary poses a challenge in DDD simulations. In                   the same \u968? .\par
contrast, a dislocation-based descriptor provides a representation of the                Each resulting grain boundary configuration is subjected to energy\par
grain boundary in terms of fundamental entities (i.e., dislocations)                 minimization in MD, and the model configuration with the lowest en\u173?\par
already explicitly modeled in DDD simulations.                                       ergy is selected as the representative Cu grain boundary structure with\par
    In the presence of a dislocation, the distortion resulting from                  that particular tilt angle. A total of 18 minimum energy grain boundary\par
displacement of atoms in a crystal from their perfect lattice sites pro\u173?             structures are generated through this process, with tilt angles varying\par
duces an elastic Volterra stress field outside the core of the dislocation           from \u968? = 3.28\u9702? to 53.13\u9702? , to cover the spectrum of low- (\u968? \u8804? 14.25\u9702? ),\par
[31,32]. Within a radius of ~10\u8211?50 burgers vector, b, from the dislo\u173?                moderate- (16.26\u9702? \u8804? \u968? \u8804? 22.62\u9702? ), and high-tilt-angle (\u968? \u8805? 28.06\u9702? )\par
cation line, nonlinear dislocation core configurations give rise to an               grain boundaries (Fig. 1). Additionally, a grain boundary structure with\par
additional linear elastic dislocation core field, which is superposed onto           a very low tilt angle of \u968? = 0.818\u9702? is also created, and is considered as an\par
the Volterra field [33,34]. Although the core-field is shorter range than            \u8220?isolated\u8221? edge dislocation structure \u8211? the periodic spacing between\par
the Volterra field, it significantly influences the forces between dislo\u173?            these \u8220?isolated\u8221? edge dislocations is ~25 nm, which is sufficiently far for\par
cations at close range, such as during dislocation pile-up, and is                   the MD stress fields of these periodic dislocation images (constructed\par
conceivably the dominant component in high angle grain boundaries                    from virial theorem) to be treated as non-interacting (see Fig. S1 of the\par
with closely-spaced GBDs. By extension, a GBD therefore acts as a source             Supplementary Materials).\par
of internal stress along the grain boundary, with its stress signature\par
arising from its core and Volterra fields. The combined interaction of an            3. Convolution neural network\par
array of GBDs constituting a grain boundary is ultimately responsible for\par
the internal stress field (\u963? ij ) near a grain boundary [28\u8211?30].                        The dislocation content of a grain boundary with tilt rotation \u968? can\par
    Elucidating the dislocation structure of a grain boundary from its               be quantified by the classical Frank-Bilby equation [51],\par
atomistic stress field is a non-trivial inverse problem, particularly in the               /     \u968?\par
presence of overlapping dislocation core fields. Recent studies in ma\u173?               dp = b (2sin )                                                      (1)\par
                                                                                                  2\par
chine learning show that deep neural network architectures are capable\par
of solving a wide variety of inverse problems. For example, neural net\u173?              where dp is the mean separation between dislocations along the\par
works have been used to predict phase diagrams and phase transitions                 boundary, and b is the magnitude of a Burgers vector of a perfect\par
[35], grain boundary energy [36], grain boundary segregations [37],                  dislocation in the crystal. This equation suggests that the tilt angle of\par
grain boundary damage [38], atomistic stresses [39], deformation                     each grain boundary must be partitioned among several sets of parallel\par
constitutive behavior of materials [40\u8211?44], as well as the potential en\u173?             edge dislocations. In atomistic simulations and microscopy experiments,\par
ergy and atomic force of metals modeled in density functional theory                 one can perform a Burgers circuit analysis (black circles in Fig. 1b-top)\par
(DFT) [45]. Here, we adopt a convolutional neural network (CNN) for                  to confirm the Burgers vector and hence the presence of individual\par
machine learning to detect the presence, and predict the locations, of               GBDs. By constructing multiple non-overlapping Burgers circuits, and\par
GBDs (output) from atomistic stress information (input) across an                    identifying those that contain a dislocation, one can further pinpoint the\par
extensive range of low to high angle <001> symmetrical-tilt grain                    location of individual GBDs with atomic precision. Analysis tools based\par
boundaries. Section 2 details the modeling of the grain boundaries with              on this approach, such as the dislocation extraction algorithm (DXA) and\par
MD simulations. Section 3 describes the CNN architecture, along with                 the on-the-fly dislocation detection algorithm (ODDA), are able to\par
the training datasets of the neural network generated from the super\u173?                quantify the approximate dislocation locations from atomic position\par
position of single (isolated) dislocation stress fields. We present results          information [52,53]. We include the DXA-predicted GBD locations along\par
for our neural network predictions of GBDs in Section 4, and introduce a             our low- to moderate-tilt-angle grain boundaries in Fig. 1a,b. Predictions\par
continuum representation of the stress fields of discrete dislocations to            from the Burgers circuit analysis, however, fall short for high angle grain\par
improve training of our neural network for high-tilt-angle boundaries. In            boundaries (e.g. Fig. 1c) \u8211? the GBDs are no longer distinct defects due to\par
Section 5, we discuss the implications of our neural network in obtaining            overlapping dislocation cores and the absence of perfect FCC crystal\par
dislocation representations of grain boundaries, especially in the                   lattice separating the disordered regimes. Nevertheless, since the GBDs\par
bridging of scales between atomistic (MD, DFT) simulations and DDD                   are fundamental elements of a grain boundary structure that create the\par
models at the meso-scale. Section 6 concludes with a summary.                        tilt (and twist) misorientation between two crystalline lattices adjoining\par
                                                                                     the boundary, the observed atomistic grain boundary field stresses and\par
2. Grain boundary modeling                                                           associated grain boundary tractions [28,29] should originate from these\par
                                                                                     intrinsic GBDs. Here, we detail the training, validation and testing of a\par
    While edge dislocations tend to dissociate to form partial dislocations          convolutional neural network (CNN) to establish the dislocation struc\u173?\par
along <110> grain boundaries [28], dislocations along <001> grain                    tures of low- to high-tilt-angle grain boundaries (output) from the grain\par
boundaries retain their distinctive edge character and have Burgers                  boundary field stresses (input).\par
vector perpendicular to the plane of the grain boundary. We create a\par
series of <001> symmetrical-tilt Cu grain boundary model structures                  3.1. Neural network architecture\par
using the classical MD simulator LAMMPS [46], where the Embedded\par
Atom Method (EAM) potential governs the interatomic interactions                         The nonlinear stress fields (\u963?11 , \u963?12 , \u963?22 ) near the grain boundaries\par
between Cu atoms [47]. This potential closely reproduces the bulk lat\u173?               are fed to a CNN to detect the presence of a GBD within the input images\par
tice (3.615 \u197?) and elastic constants (C11 = 167 GPa, C12 = 124 GPa, C44              and to predict its (x1 ,x2 ) location. In between the input and output layers\par
= 76 GPa) of Cu, which are comparable to experimental measurements                   are the hidden layers starting with a convolutional tool made up of many\par
and tight-binding calculations [48\u8211?50]. We create each bicrystal model               repeated convolution, ReLU activation, and max pooling layers for\par
structure by first rotating two perfect face-centered-cubic (FCC) Cu                 feature extraction, as depicted in Fig. 2. Similar to previously employed\par
single crystals by a tilt angle \u177?\u968?2 about the [001] direction (x3 -axis), with       CNNs for image classification [54], each convolution layer is a filter\par
                                                                                     represented by a matrix of weights, which convolves over the mappings\par
\par
                                                                                 2\par
W. Noh and H.B. Chew                                                                                                      Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 1. Atomistic configurations of low- (a), moderate- (b), and high-tilt-angle (c) <001> Cu grain boundaries constructed by MD simulations. Atoms are colored\par
according to the common neighbor analysis: green \u8211? FCC, white \u8211? other coordination structure. Outlined atoms in (b-top) depict example of a Burgers circuit.\par
Dislocation symbols in (a) and (b) denote predicted dislocation locations from DXA analysis.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 2. Architecture of a convolutional neural network (CNN) to detect the presence or absence of dislocations with probability p0 or p1 = 1 \u8722? p0 and predict its\par
corresponding (x1 , x2 ) location, from the atomistic (\u963? 11 , \u963?12 , \u963? 22 ) stress images within the sliding detection window (red outline).\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 3. Training of a CNN with pseudo GBD structures. Top: instantiation of randomly-spaced edge dislocations along a grain boundary. Bottom: pseudo grain\par
boundary stress field from superposing the discrete stress fields of isolated edge dislocations from MD simulations.\par
\par
                                                                                3\par
W. Noh and H.B. Chew                                                                                                               Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
\par
in the previous layer. The ReLU activation layer after each convolution                  dislocation line, but the stress distributions are very different within the\par
enables the CNN to learn complex functions more efficiently by intro\u173?                    core region.\par
ducing nonlinearities to the numerical mappings, while the maxpool                           Prior studies have represented the contribution of core effects using\par
layers reduce the spatial dimensions of the mappings by selecting the                    linear anisotropic elasticity theory with force and dislocation dipoles;\par
maximum values and provide the translation invariance characteristic of                  this contribution is superposed on the Volterra field to describe the\par
the CNN. In the final layer of the convolutional tool, we forgo the                      overall dislocation field stresses and strains [33,34]. Here, we directly\par
maxpool layer because of the limited spatial dimensions of its preceding                 account for both the core and Volterra fields using the MD stress field of\par
input, and separately connect the final ReLU activation layer to two                     an isolated edge dislocation computed from Virial theorem (Fig. S1b of\par
parallel and independent fully-connected (FC) layers for dimensionality                  the Supplementary Materials), with Voronoi tessellation cells over each\par
                                                                                                                                                        2\par
reduction and feature combination. The first FC layer is subjected to a                  atom. We subdivide this Voronoi stress field into 0.5 \u215? 0.5\u197? pixels, and\par
softmax activation function, which provides a probabilistic interpreta\u173?                  average the \u963?ij stresses within each pixel. For each 200 \u215? 200\u197? simu\u173?\par
                                                                                                                                                                    2\par
\par
tion of output values through a 2\u215?1 vector with probabilities denoting                   lated \u8220?grain boundary\u8221? structure represented by random spatial distri\u173?\par
the presence (p0 ) and absence (p1 ) of a dislocation (p0 + p1 = 1). The                 butions of edge dislocations along the x1 -axis (Fig. 3-top), we superpose\par
second FC layer outputs a 2\u215?1 vector representing the (x1 ,x2 ) location of              the pixelated stresses centered about each edge dislocation to obtain the\par
the detected GBD; its output is set to a location of (0,0) and ignored in                \u8220?grain boundary\u8221? stress field (Fig. 3-bottom). We train our CNN to\par
the absence of a dislocation. During training of the CNN, the initially                  predict the presence of a dislocation, and its subsequent location, if the\par
randomized weights of the model are optimized through back\u173?                                                                                                                2\par
                                                                                         center core of the dislocation lies within a 20 \u215? 20pixel2 (10 \u215? 10\u197? )\par
propagation using the Adam\u8217?s optimizer to minimize a two-part loss\par
                                                                                         sample representing a detection window (Fig. 3-bottom). We also ensure\par
function, comprising of a cross-entropy loss for the classification prob\u173?\par
                                                                                         that no more than one dislocation is present within each detection\par
lem of dislocation detection from the first FC layer, and a smooth L1 loss\par
                                                                                         window in our training dataset. We remark that the pixel size selected\par
for the (x1 ,x2 ) dislocation location prediction from the second FC layer,\par
                                                                                         has to be sufficiently small to capture the features of the object (GBD)\par
with equal weights assigned to the respective loss components.\par
                                                                                         being detected, since too large of a pixel would average out the het\u173?\par
                                                                                         erogeneous stress distributions and cause issues with localization of the\par
3.2. Training dataset generation\par
                                                                                         GBDs. However, too small of a pixel would significantly increase the\par
                                                                                         computational expense to train the CNN. Our heuristic choice of a pixel\par
    Our input-output training dataset for the CNN is generated by su\u173?\par
                                                                                         size of 0.5\u215?0.5 \u197?2, which is several-folds smaller than the Voronoi cell\par
perposing the stress field of individual edge dislocations with random\par
                                                                                         area, allows the large stress field variations within the core of each GBD\par
spatial arrangements along the x1 -axis (Fig. 3-top) to create multiple\par
                                                                                         to be adequately captured. The localization predictions are expected to\par
instantiations of possible \u8220?grain boundary\u8221? stress fields (Fig. 3-bottom).\par
                                                                                         have an intrinsic uncertainty of ~0.5\u197?.\par
The analytical expression for the linear elastic Volterra stress field of\par
isolated edge dislocations is commonly used to describe dislocation in\u173?\par
teractions in DDD simulations [31,32]. Aside from the Volterra field,                    3.3. Hyperparameter testing\par
however, dislocations possess a core field, which can be significant up to\par
a distance of ten Burgers vector from the dislocation line [33]. We note                     We generate 9000 samples, with an equal split between samples with\par
that the periodic spacing between GBDs, dp , falls below twice this dis\u173?                 and without dislocations to ensure a balanced dataset. We subdivide\par
tance even for very low angle grain boundaries (Table 1), suggesting the                 60%, 20%, and 20% of these samples into training, validation, and\par
importance of core field effects. We further illustrate this by comparing                testing datasets, respectively. To optimize the CNN architecture, we\par
the stress distributions associated with the Volterra field versus MD field              perform hyperparameter testing by systematically varying the learning\par
(which incorporates core effects) of an isolated edge dislocation,                       rate, number of convolutional layers, and the type of activation layers;\par
centered along the x3 -axis, in Figs. S1 and S2 of the Supplementary                     we also perform a limited study on the effects of the max pooling layer\par
Materials. We observe that the stress contours are generally                             by changing the default kernel (size 2 \u215? 2 and stride 2) only for the third\par
well-described by the Volterra field after a certain distance from the                   convolution layer (if applicable). We quantify the CNN performance\par
\par
Table 1\par
Detection and localization testing accuracies across grain boundaries with various tilt-angles (\u968? ) of a CNN trained on (a) superposed discrete dislocation stress field and\par
(b) superposed continuum dislocation stress field.\par
 \u968? (\u9702? )     dp (\u197?)     Train: Discrete Dislocation Stress Field                                   Train: Continuum Dislocation Stress Field\par
\par
                       Detect (%)                         Localize                                Detect (%)                         Localize\par
\par
                       True positive    True negative                     \u916?x1 (\u197?)     \u916?x2 (\u197?)     True positive    True negative                       \u916?x1 (\u197?)     \u916?x2 (\u197?)\par
                                                          \u177?1 \u197? Box (%)                                                               \u177?1 \u197? Box (%)\par
\par
 3.28       63.3       100              81                95              -0.24        0.32       100              99                100                0.26       -0.11\par
 3.95       52.4       100              82                95              -0.24        0.33       100              99                100                0.26       -0.11\par
 4.24       48.8       100              81                95              -0.24        0.33       100              99                100                0.26       -0.10\par
 5.45       38.0       100              81                86              -0.02       -0.14        99              99                 81                0.12       -0.16\par
 5.73       36.2       100              82                85              -0.06       -0.08        97              99                 83                0.14       -0.05\par
 6.73       30.8       100              84                85              -0.05       -0.21        99              98                 86                0.14       -0.06\par
 8.17       25.4       100              83                86              -0.02       -0.13        98              98                 85                0.14       -0.05\par
 8.80       23.6       100              83                90               0.03       -0.09       100              98                 85                0.07       -0.10\par
 10.39      20.0       100              82                90               0.03       -0.10        95              99                 86                0.19       -0.14\par
 11.42      18.2       100              83                90               0.09       -0.02        96              99                 84                0.16       -0.10\par
 12.68      16.4       100              84                91               0.14        0.03        96              99                 86                0.10       -0.02\par
 14.25      14.6       100              85                96               0.20        0.01        92              99                 85                0.21       -0.12\par
 16.26      12.8       100              86                94               0.23        0.01        84              99                 81                0.18       -0.20\par
 18.93      11.0       100              89                89               0.08        0.22        87              99                 80                0.10       -0.01\par
 22.62       9.2       100              91                89               0.24        0.22        95              98                 80                0.20       -0.01\par
 28.06       7.5       100              93                93              -0.27       -0.14       100              97                 95                0.34        0.08\par
 36.86       5.7       100              97                 2              -2.01       -1.30       100              97                 94               -0.04       -0.21\par
 Average               100              85                85              -0.12        0.25        96              98                 88                0.17       -0.09\par
\par
\par
                                                                                     4\par
W. Noh and H.B. Chew                                                                                                     Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
\par
based on its ability to (a) correctly detect the presence or absence of            (generally, d1 \u8725?= d2 \u8725?\par
                                                                                                        = d3 \u8230?\u8230? in Fig. 3-top), and superposing the discrete\par
dislocations within the sampling image (detection accuracy), as well as            (pixelated) MD stress fields for isolated edge dislocations (Fig. 3-bot\u173?\par
(b) predict the dislocation location within a 4 \u215? 4 pixel2 (2 \u215? 2\u197? )\par
                                                                          2        tom). Recognizing that the <001> symmetrical-tilt Cu grain boundary\par
square grid from its core center for samples containing dislocations               structures of interest comprise of only periodic arrays of GBDs with fixed\par
(localization accuracy). We train each model on the training dataset for           periodicity dp , we repeat the training process outlined in Section 3.3 to\par
100 epochs and we select the epoch with the lowest validation loss from            train a new CNN based on periodically-distributed edge dislocations\par
the validation dataset. We further confirm that this validation loss is            along the x1 -axis \u8211? each training data has random but equal GBD spac\u173?\par
similar to the loss from the testing dataset at the 100 epoch, which               ings (d1 = d2 = d3 \u8230?\u8230? in Fig. 3-top). We find that this new CNN, trained\par
suggests generalizability of the CNN to unseen data. Results of the                on the periodic dataset, outperforms the previous CNN trained on the\par
hyperparameter study are summarized in Table S1 of the Supplementary               non-periodic dataset (Section 3.3). We then elucidate the ability of this\par
Materials. Our studies show that the learning rate is the most critical            newly-trained CNN to accurately detect and quantify the dislocation\par
hyperparameter (optimal at 1e-5), followed by the number of convolu\u173?               structures of <001> symmetrical-tilt grain boundaries of varying tilt\par
tional layers (\u8805? 3 layers are necessary). Our final CNN architecture has a         angles, based on the MD-computed grain boundary stresses as the input\par
learning rate of 1e-5, with 4 convolutional layers, each coupled to a              to the CNN.\par
ReLU activation layer, followed by a max pooling kernel of size 2 \u215? 2                  We first focus on low- to moderate-tilt-angle grain boundaries of \u968? =\par
and stride 2, except for the final convolutional layer where the activa\u173?            3.28\u9702? to 22.62\u9702? where the location of GBDs can still be ascertained by\par
tion layer is separately coupled to two parallel FC layers. Because of the         DXA analysis. However, the resolution of DXA analysis is limited to the\par
low computational cost of training the neural network (longest runtime             size of the smallest possible Burgers circuit that can be constructed; a\par
to train a CNN for 100 epochs with a batch size of one is 170.18 minutes           more accurate assessment of the ground truth location for these GBDs\par
on a 3.70 GHz Intel i9\u8211?10900X processor with 10 cores) and the near-               can be estimated from the inflection point between the maximum tensile\par
perfect predictive accuracies already achieved with this neural                    and compressive \u963?11 and \u963? 22 stresses along x2 = 0 (Figs. S1 and S2 of the\par
network architecture, we did not further optimize the remaining                    Supplementary Materials). Based on this \u8220?ground truth\u8221? representation\par
hyperparameters, such as the type of optimizer, training step size, and            of the GBD locations, we quantify the true positive and true negative\par
                                                                                                                                               2\par
accuracy variance in the training cycle.                                           dislocation detection accuracies by sliding a 10 \u215? 10\u197? detection win\u173?\par
                                                                                                                  2\par
                                                                                   dow in single pixel (0.5 \u215? 0.5\u197? ) increments along the x1 - and x2 -axis of\par
4. Results                                                                         each grain boundary structure. For samples where a dislocation is pre\u173?\par
                                                                                   sent within the detection window, we also compute the localization\par
4.1. Low to moderate angle grain boundaries                                        error as the average difference between the predicted dislocation loca\u173?\par
                                                                                   tion and its \u8220?actual\u8221? ground truth location. As summarized in Table 1,\par
   Our CNN architectures in Section 3.3 are trained on datasets gener\u173?             our CNN trained on the discrete (pixelated) superposed stress field of\par
ated by randomly positioning edge dislocations along the x1 -axis                  dislocation arrays is able to detect with 100% accuracy the presence of\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 4. Sampling of detection windows (colored boxes) where true positive edge dislocations are detected for low- (a,b) and moderate-tilt-angle (c,d) grain\par
boundaries, along with the predicted dislocation locations (corresponding colored dislocation symbols). Green dislocation symbol: average predicted dislocation\par
location across all positive detection windows. Black box: \u177?2 pixel error bound centered about the actual dislocation location (black cross).\par
\par
                                                                               5\par
W. Noh and H.B. Chew                                                                                                         Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
\par
an edge dislocation across these grain boundary structures, albeit with               Fig. 5, since the superposed fields are used for the training of our CNN.\par
an observable false positive prediction (~15%). The localization pre\u173?                 We observe minor variations in the localization predictions (green\par
dictions are surprisingly accurate, with mean location predictions                    dislocation symbols) among neighboring GBDs along each of the\par
                                             2\par
residing well within a single 0.5 \u215? 0.5\u197? pixel from the ground truth                  symmetrical-tilt grain boundaries, which we attribute to small trans\u173?\par
location, which is the current limit of our localization resolution.                  lation of pixels because the grain boundaries modeled in MD do not have\par
    We show in Fig. 4a a sampling of detection windows for grain                      periodicities that are exactly divisible by the pixel dimension of 0.5 \u197?.\par
boundaries with varying tilt angles where true positive (colored boxes)               Close examination also shows that the dislocation cores of these super\u173?\par
dislocations are detected, along with the predicted locations (corre\u173?                 posed fields are slightly more diffused compared to the actual MD grain\par
sponding colored dislocation symbols) of these detections. We remark                  boundaries, and have a distinct neutral zone within its compressive core.\par
that the false positive detections are consistently associated with sam\u173?              Our MD simulations show that this neutral zone dissipates for tilt angles\par
pling windows just outside the \u177?1A\u778? error bound (solid black box)                     of \u968? = 5.45\u9702? and beyond, suggesting some structural changes to the core\par
centered at the core of the GBD (black cross). Interestingly, the locali\u173?             even at these low tilt angles. The presence of this neutral zone, however,\par
zation predictions are very accurate, providing a mean GBD location                   has little apparent bearing on the CNN\u8217?s ability to detect and localize the\par
(green dislocation symbol) that almost overlaps with the actual ground                GBDs.\par
truth predictions, even at moderate grain boundary tilt angles of \u968? =\par
16.26\u9702? and 22.62\u9702? (Figs. 4c and 4d). This high accuracy can be attrib\u173?\par
uted to the generally similar grain boundary stress fields from MD                    4.2. High angle grain boundaries\par
simulations versus the reconstructed stress fields from superposing the\par
pixelated MD stress fields of isolated edge dislocations, as shown in                    DXA analysis cannot identify the dislocation structures of high angle\par
                                                                                      grain boundaries beyond \u968? > 22.62\u9702? , since the cores of the closely-\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 5. Comparison of the superposed stress fields of isolated dislocations versus the actual grain boundary stress fields from MD simulations for low- and moderate-\par
tilt-angle grain boundaries. Green dislocation symbol: predicted dislocation location. Black cross: actual dislocation location.\par
\par
                                                                                  6\par
W. Noh and H.B. Chew                                                                                                         Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
\par
spaced GBDs are now overlapping. In contrast, our trained CNN is able                error bound (solid black box) centered at the core of the GBD, which\par
to detect the presence of GBDs in both the \u968? = 28.06\u9702? and 36.86\u9702? grain               suggests a lack of confidence in the CNN predictions.\par
boundaries with very high accuracy, as shown in Table 1. While the                       To elucidate the contrasting performance of the CNN towards both\par
exact GBD location can be ascertained with high confidence for the \u968? =               these high-tilt-angle boundaries, we compare the reconstructed stress\par
28.06\u9702? grain boundary, poor localization predictions are obtained for                fields of these boundaries from superposition of the periodic GBDs\par
the \u968? = 36.86\u9702? grain boundary. Figs. 6a and 6b show the sampling of                  versus the actual MD stress fields (Figs. 6c and 6d). Unlike low- to\par
true positive detection windows (colored boxes) for both these high-tilt-            moderate-tilt-angle grain boundaries, distinct differences are now\par
angle grain boundaries, along with the corresponding locations of these              observed between the superposed and actual MD grain boundary fields\par
detected dislocations (colored dislocation symbols). For the \u968? = 28.06\u9702?              for both these high-tilt-angle grain boundaries. For the \u968? = 28.06\u9702? grain\par
grain boundary, there is surprisingly very limited spread in the predicted           boundary, there is still good general agreement between the superposed\par
GBD locations, suggesting high accuracy of the CNN even when the cores               and actual MD stress fields within the core of the GBDs, which allows the\par
are overlapping. In contrast, we observe a huge scatter in dislocation               neural network to correctly localize the GBDs, but the reconstructed\par
location predictions for the \u968? = 36.86\u9702? grain boundary with average                  field increasingly deviates from the actual MD stress field with radial\par
predictions (green dislocation symbol) falling well outside of the \u177?1A\u778?              distance from the center cores of these GBDs. For the \u968? = 36.86\u9702? grain\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 6. High-tilt-angle grain boundaries: (a,b) Sampling of detection windows (colored boxes) where true positive edge dislocations are detected, along with the\par
predicted dislocation locations (corresponding colored dislocation symbols). Green dislocation symbol: average predicted dislocation location across all positive\par
detection windows; black box: \u177?2 pixel error bound centered about the actual dislocation location (black cross). (c,d) Comparison of the superposed stress fields of\par
isolated dislocations versus the actual grain boundary stress fields from MD simulations.\par
\par
                                                                                 7\par
W. Noh and H.B. Chew                                                                                                       Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
\par
boundary, there is now complete lack of correlation between the su\u173?                 associated with positive and negative contours of individual \u963? ij stress\par
perposed stress field used in the training dataset of the CNN and the               components near the grain boundary is, to a first order, the key feature\par
actual MD grain boundary field, which explains the poor predictive                  that enables the neural network to pinpoint the exact location of GBDs.\par
localization performance of the CNN. We attribute the discrepancies                 Accordingly, we delineate the grain boundary stress field into tension\par
                                                                                                             \u8402? \u8402?\par
between the superposed and MD fields to: (a) changes to the dislocation             (\u963?ij > 1 GPa), neutral (\u8402?\u963?ij \u8402? \u8804? 1 GPa), and compression (\u963?ij < \u8722? 1 GPa)\par
core structure with increasing proximity/overlap of the GBDs, and (b)               zones. For grain boundaries with low- and moderate-tilt-angles in Fig. 7,\par
numerical errors associated with superposition of the discrete stress               we can clearly identify unique stress signatures associated with indi\u173?\par
fields for isolated edge dislocations used for the training of the CNN. The         vidual GBDs along the boundary which are exhibited by both the MD\par
former could warrant incorporating the MD fields of closely-spaced but              and superposed fields. For the high-tilt-angle grain boundary with \u968? =\par
clearly identifiable dislocation structures within the training dataset,            28.06\u9702? in Fig. 8, distinctive tension, neutral and compression zones are\par
and is discussed in Section 5. The latter contributes to an accumulation            still exhibited by both the MD and superposed \u963? ij field, although some\par
of error with increasing density of superposed GBDs, and hence is                   background noise is now observed for the latter. This background noise\par
exacerbated for high-tilt-angle grain boundaries with shorter grain                 permeates the entire superposed stress field for the \u968? = 36.86\u9702? grain\par
boundary period, dp .                                                               boundary, which clouds the compression-tension stress pattern and the\par
    One distinct characteristic of GBDs is the clear demarcation between            ability of a CNN to identify the GBD signatures for these high-tilt-angle\par
tension and compression zones. We theorize that the distinct pattern                boundaries.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 7. Tension and compression contours of the grain boundary stress fields from MD versus the superposed discrete and continuum stress fields of isolated dis\u173?\par
                                                                                                                    \u8402? \u8402?\par
locations for low- and moderate-tilt-angle grain boundaries. Yellow: \u963? ij > 1 GPa; blue: \u963?ij < \u8722? 1 GPa; pale green: \u8402?\u963? ij \u8402? \u8804? 1 GPa. Green dislocation symbol: CNN\par
prediction trained on the continuum stress fields.\par
\par
                                                                                8\par
W. Noh and H.B. Chew                                                                                                             Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 8. Tension and compression contours of the grain boundary stress fields from MD versus the superposed discrete and continuum stress fields of isolated dis\u173?\par
                                                                                                       \u8402? \u8402?\par
locations for high-tilt-angle grain boundaries. Yellow: \u963?ij > 1 GPa; blue: \u963? ij < \u8722? 1 GPa; pale green: \u8402?\u963?ij \u8402? \u8804? 1 GPa. Green dislocation symbol: CNN prediction trained on\par
the continuum stress fields.\par
\par
\par
4.3. Continuum field representation of dislocations                                     isolated edge dislocation with Burgers vector normal to the x1 -axis\par
                                                                                        generally has equal magnitude but opposite sign about the x2 -axis\par
       To increase the accuracy of our superposed stress fields in our                  (Figs. S1 and S2 of the Supplementary Materials), except at distances\par
training dataset for the CNN, we introduce a spectral (field projection)                very close to the dislocation core. This lack of strict enforcement of\par
method [28\u8211?30] to obtain a continuum-representation of the stress-field                 equilibrium and symmetry constraints for the atomistic (virial) stress\par
(\u963? cij ) of a single isolated edge dislocation from the discrete atomistic              fields of an isolated dislocation results in significant accumulation of\par
stress field modeled in MD (\u963?MD                                                         error once we superpose these discrete fields for the training of the CNN,\par
                             ij ). The 2D continuum stress field can be\par
represented by a Fourier series,                                                        as shown by the increasing background noise of the superposed fields\par
                                                                                        with grain boundary tilt-angle in Figs. 7 and 8. Here, we set Q11          11\par
                                                                                                                                                            0n = S0n =\par
         M \u8721?\par
         \u8721?                   (n\u960?x )                        (n\u960?x ) (m\u960?x )                             22                  12            12   12\par
                                                                                               22                               12\par
                                                                                         0, Rm0 = Sm0 = 0, and Q0n = Rm0 = S0n = Sm0 = 0 in (2) and (3) to\par
           N\par
                                  1      m\u960?x2                   1         2\par
\u963?cij =             Pijmn sin        sin(      ) + Qijmn sin       cos                                                                \u8747?             \u8747?                  \u8747?\par
         m=0 n=0\par
                                L         L                   L         L     (2)       enforce the equilibrium constraints of \u963?11 dx2 = 0, \u963?22 dx1 = 0, and\par
                    (n\u960?x ) (m\u960?x )                    (n\u960?x ) (m\u960?x )                                 \u8747?\par
         + Rijmn cos\par
                           1\par
                              sin\par
                                       2\par
                                          + Sijmn cos\par
                                                           1\par
                                                             cos\par
                                                                      2                 \u963? 12 dx1 = \u963? 12 dx2 = 0, respectively. In addition, we enforce the sym\u173?\par
                        L           L                    L         L                                                         \u8747?                               11\par
                                                                                        metry constraint resulting in \u963?11 dx1 \u8776? 0 by setting R11       m0 = Sm0 = 0 in\par
                                                                                        (2) and (3). We find that the \u963?cij field convergences between N = M =\par
where (Pijmn ,Qijmn ,Rijmn ,Sijmn ) are the unknown coefficients to be determined\par
using the orthogonality rule. By approximating \u963? cij \u8773? \u963?MD             when aver\u173?        \u8764?150\u8211?250 terms, and we select N = M = 250 terms in our Fourier\par
                                                                   ij\par
                                                                                        construction of \u963?cij . Since \u963? cij is continuous and satisfies the equilibrium\par
aged over the periodic domain,\par
                                                                                        equations, we consider (2) to provide a continuum-equivalent repre\u173?\par
           \u8747?\u8747?\par
         1 L MD (n\u960? x1 )               m\u960?x2                                             sentation of the combined core and Volterra field of an isolated edge\par
 Pijmn = 2         \u963? ij sin        sin(      )dx1 dx2\par
        L      \u8722? L           L           L                                              dislocation.\par
         1\par
           \u8747?\u8747? L            (n\u960? x )      m\u960?x2                                                 The periodicity of our Fourier series is defined on the interval ( \u8722? L, L)\par
                                1\par
Qijmn = 2\par
        L\par
                   \u963?MD\par
                    ij sin\par
                             L\par
                                  cos(\par
                                         L\par
                                              )dx1 dx2                                  along both the x1 - and x2 -directions. As such, L has to be sufficiently\par
                                                                              (3)       large for \u963?MD\par
                                                                                                   ij to dissipate so that periodic images of the edge dislocation\par
               \u8722? L\par
           \u8747?\u8747?\par
         1 L MD (n\u960?x1 )                 m\u960? x2\par
Rijmn = 2          \u963?ij cos         sin(       )dx1 dx2                                  through the Fourier series will not influence the stress field in the\par
        L                     L          L\par
          \u8747?\u8747?\par
               \u8722? L\par
                                                                                        x2 -direction. Along the x1 -axis, however, we seek to superimpose mul\u173?\par
        1 L MD (n\u960?x1 )                  m\u960?x2                                            tiple equally-spaced edge dislocations (representing the periodic grain\par
Sijmn = 2         \u963?ij cos         cos(        )dx1 dx2\par
        L     \u8722? L            L           L                                              boundary spacing dp ) to generate training sets for our CNN. These pe\u173?\par
    Based on equilibrium conditions, the average normal and shear                       riods will necessarily be significantly shorter than the Fourier period of\par
tractions along each cross-sectional cut parallel to the x1 - or x2 -axis               2L, and we carefully select the value of L for each training data so that\par
should be zero for a single edge dislocation with its core centered about               the Fourier representation of the edge dislocation period dp will be\par
the x3 -axis \u8211? a condition that is clearly not satisfied by our superposed              approximately in discrete multiples of L. This approach allows us to\par
discrete (pixelated) \u963?ij stress fields, particularly for the high-tilt-angle            superpose the continuum stress field \u963?cij of a significantly reduced set of\par
grain boundaries in Fig. 8. In addition, the \u963?11 field for a single                     discrete edge dislocations within the bounds of \u8722? L < x1 < L, since the\par
\par
\par
                                                                                    9\par
W. Noh and H.B. Chew                                                                                                         Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
\par
stress fields of the edge dislocations beyond |x1 | \u8805? L are implicitly                One of the best approaches for establishing dislocation theories of\par
accounted for with the periodic Fourier representation of \u963?cij .                      plasticity is through atomistic and TEM studies on the interaction be\u173?\par
    We elucidate the improved accuracy of (2) by comparing the                        tween dislocations and a single grain boundary [30,61]. However,\par
compression-neutral-tension stress patterns for this continuum field                  scaling these dislocation-grain boundary interaction mechanisms to the\par
versus the MD field across the low- to high-tilt-angle grain boundaries in            meso-scale (i.e., polycrystalline grain level) with DDD models has been\par
Figs. 7 and 8. We observe a significant improvement in the GBD field                  challenging, because of the lack of an appropriate descriptor of the grain\par
representation even for the low- and moderate-tilt-angle boundaries of \u968?              boundary interface. Traditionally, DDD models rely on empirical or\par
= 11.42\u9702? and 16.26\u9702? in Fig. 7 \u8211? the features associated with the super\u173?               phenomenological rules from lower-scale atomistic calculations and\par
posed continuum field are in much better agreement with the MD field                  experiments to govern the pile-up of dislocations at grain boundaries\par
compared to the superposed discrete field. Even for the high-tilt-angle               and the transmission of dislocations through grain boundaries, as well as\par
boundaries of \u968? = 28.06\u9702? and 36.86\u9702? in Fig. 8, the background noise                   the dependence of these mechanisms on the orientation and character of\par
in the respective superposed atomistic stress field is now completely                 the grain boundaries [11\u8211?16]. Here, the representation of a grain\par
suppressed for the superposed continuum field due to the enforced                     boundary with GBDs allows for the explicit modeling of unit\par
equilibrium and symmetry constraints in the spectral treatment, which                 dislocation-grain boundary interactions in DDD models, and is a critical\par
allows the distinctive tension-compression features associated with the               step towards plasticity modeling of polycrystalline metals across scales.\par
GBDs to re-emerge.                                                                        The notion of GBDs as fundamental elements of a grain boundary\par
    Following the procedure outlined in Section 3, we generate 9000                   structure that create the tilt and twist misorientation adjoining the\par
samples of the continuum-equivalent stress fields of periodically-spaced              boundary of two crystalline lattices has been well demonstrated by way\par
edge dislocations for the training, validation, and testing of our CNN,               of atomistic simulations and TEM experiments [19,28,30]. These GBDs\par
and apply this CNN towards the MD grain boundary models across the                    in turn generate the atomistic field stresses near the grain boundary,\par
range of \u968? . Our results summarized in Table 1 show that re-training of               which control fundamental mechanistic processes of dislocation emis\u173?\par
the CNN based on the continuum stress fields of superposed edge dis\u173?                  sion, absorption, and pile-up [28\u8211?30]. Elucidating the dislocation\par
locations significantly improves the true negative dislocation detections             structure of a boundary from the grain boundary field stresses is there\u173?\par
(by ~13%) while maintaining high true positive dislocation detection                  fore an inverse problem, which is particularly challenging for\par
accuracies. The mean localization errors are still mostly within one or               high-tilt-angle grain boundaries due to the overlapping core fields of\par
two pixels from the core, but the localization predictions for \u968? = 36.86\u9702? ,           adjacent GBDs. Our results show that the presence and location of these\par
which is the highest tilt angle in Table 1, is markedly improved: ~94%                GBDs across low- to high-tilt-angle grain boundaries can be established\par
of the correctly predicted dislocations now reside within \u177?1A\u778? of the                 with high confidence using CNNs, trained on a dataset generated by\par
actual GBD, compared to a mere ~2% when the CNN was trained on the                    superposing the continuum stress fields of unit dislocations. Our pre\u173?\par
discrete dislocation field.                                                           dictions capture the transition from sparsely-separated dislocations in\par
    With this improved quality of the training dataset, we show a sam\u173?                low angle grain boundaries, to dislocation clusters with overlapping\par
pling of the predictions for various sliding detection widows for both \u968?              polymorphic cores in high angle grain boundaries.\par
= 28.06\u9702? and 36.86\u9702? in Fig. 9. We now obtain very consistent localiza\u173?                    DDD simulations almost universally ignore core effects, and base the\par
tion predictions with limited scatter for both boundaries; the average                stress field around a dislocation on the analytical linear elastic Volterra\par
localization predictions of the CNN (green dislocation symbols) are now               solution [11\u8211?16]. However, studies have shown that core effects can be\par
very close to the actual dislocation location (cross symbol) at the center            significant ~10\u8211?50b (~30\u8211?150 \u197?) from the dislocation line [33]. This\par
of the error bounding box (black). We further push the limits our CNN                 has motivated the development of analytical solutions for the disloca\u173?\par
predictions by examining the localization capabilities when applied to a              tion core field as cylindrical dilatations caused by a line defect repre\u173?\par
grain boundary with a very high tilt angle of \u968? = 53.13\u9702? . While we                   sented by unequal force dipoles, which are in turn superposed on the\par
cannot ascertain with high confidence the ground truth location of the                Volterra field [34]. We have instead obtained a continuum representa\u173?\par
GBDs along this particular grain boundary, the scatter in predictions                 tion of the combined core and Volterra field of an isolated edge dislo\u173?\par
(magenta) across all sliding detection windows is still within reasonable             cation modeled in MD through a spectral method. We find that a CNN,\par
limits, lending confidence to the average predictions (green dislocation              trained on a dataset generated by superposing the continuum fields of\par
symbols) as representative of the grain boundary dislocation structure.               randomly-spaced GBDs, is able to accurately quantify the locations of\par
                                                                                      the GBDs even for very high angle grain boundaries with overlapping\par
5. Discussions                                                                        core fields. Conversely, we have also trained a CNN based only on the\par
                                                                                      Volterra analytical fields of superposed GBDs, and our results show\par
    The multiscale plastic deformation of polycrystalline metals typically            dramatically reduced true positive detection predictions even for\par
initiates from dislocation mechanisms at the grain boundary [55\u8211?60].                  low-tilt-angle grain boundaries, with an inability of the CNN to localize\par
                                                                                      the GBDs (Table S2 of the Supplementary Materials).\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 9. Dislocation structures of high-tilt-angle grain boundaries from CNN trained on the superposed continuum stress fields of isolated dislocations. Colored boxes\par
and dislocation symbols: sampling of detection windows for true positive edge dislocation with corresponding dislocation locations; black box: \u177?2 pixel error bound\par
centered about the actual dislocation location (black cross); green dislocation symbol: average predicted dislocation location across all positive detection windows.\par
\par
                                                                                 10\par
W. Noh and H.B. Chew                                                                                                           Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
\par
    Our basic assumption in generating the training dataset is that the                  vidual atoms near the boundary were sequentially removed to compute\par
principle of superposition holds, and the stress field of the combined                   the pair force between atoms, while correcting for changes to the local\par
grain boundary structure can be well-represented by the superposed                       electron density caused by atom removal [62]. We have reproduced\par
stress fields of isolated edge dislocations. This simple assumption ap\u173?                  these atomistic stresses from a DFT model of a symmetrical-tilt\par
pears to be valid for low- to moderate-tilt-angle grain boundaries, where                \u931?5(310)[001] Cu grain boundary (\u968? = 36.86\u9702? ) in Fig. 10a, which are\par
the superposed stress fields of the isolated dislocations closely resemble               fed as inputs to our CNN trained on the superposed continuum dislo\u173?\par
the actual virial stresses of the grain boundaries from MD simulations                   cation fields in Section 4.3. We show that this CNN is able to detect the\par
(Fig. 5). For high-tilt-angle grain boundaries, however, the superposed                  presence of GBDs with true positive and true negative accuracies of\par
stress field increasingly deviates from the actual MD stress field with                  100% and 90%, respectively, along with localization accuracies of 95%.\par
increasing proximity of the GBDs (Fig. 6c,d), which suggests some level                  We include in Fig. 10a a sampling of the true positive detection win\u173?\par
of core structure changes associated with core-to-core interactions.                     dows, along with the corresponding location of the predicted GBDs from\par
Nevertheless, the CNN is still able to predict, with high consistency, the               the DFT stress field. Results show that the average GBD location estab\u173?\par
location of these closely-spaced GBDs in very high-tilt-angle grain                      lished from the DFT stress field (green dislocation symbol) is within\par
boundaries (Fig. 9). Conceivably, the neural network predictions can be                  ~0.14 \u197? of the average location predicted from the MD stress field in\par
further improved by incorporating the effects of core structural changes                 Fig. 9b \u8211? we superimpose both these GBD predictions (denoted by green\par
(as a function of the tilt angle) into the training dataset. To this end, one            and red dislocation symbols, respectively) on a high resolution TEM\par
possibility is to train the CNN based on the MD stress fields of actual                  image of the same boundary [63] in Fig. 10b. In addition to elucidating\par
grain boundaries, although this necessitates identifying the dislocation                 the stress state of the grain boundary with atomistic models, experi\u173?\par
structures of these grain boundaries a priori. We show in Table 2 the                    mental techniques have utilized moving dislocations as mechanical\par
ability of CNNs, trained on lower tilt-angle grain boundaries (bold en\u173?                  probes, digital image correlation, or dark field in-line holography, to\par
tries) to predict the dislocation structures of higher tilt-angle grain                  achieve sub-nanometer resolution image-based local strain and stress\par
boundaries (non-bold entries). Interestingly, the CNN is able to extrap\u173?                 measurements [64\u8211?67]. Recent studies have proposed a hybrid MD-TEM\par
olate its detection of GBDs in high-tilt-angle grain boundaries with high                approach, using an artificial neural network (ANN) trained on MD data,\par
accuracy, but its localization extrapolation capabilities are limited only               to quantify the atomistic stresses of a grain boundary from atomic po\u173?\par
to the nearest few (at times, one or two) neighboring grain boundary                     sition information provided by TEM imaging [39]. Through our neural\par
models ranked in ascending order of \u968? . Conversely, training the CNN on                  network approach, one can conceivably predict the GBD structures from\par
very much fewer grain boundary models, but encompassing grain                            the experimental local stress information of these boundaries.\par
boundaries over a wider range of \u968? , allows for excellent interpolative                      The present analysis for GBD detection and localization is based on\par
detection and localization capabilities, as shown in Table 3. Even with                  minimum energy symmetrical-tilt <001> grain boundaries, where the\par
just three grain boundaries within the training dataset (bold entries for                GBDs are known to retain their distinctive edge character with Burgers\par
CNN-2), the localization predictions on the remaining MD grain                           vector oriented perpendicular to the plane of the grain boundary \u8211? this\par
boundaries in the testing dataset (non-bold entries) well exceeds 80%                    significantly simplifies the training dataset. Nevertheless, the study\par
within the interpolative range of \u968? .                                                    demonstrates for the first time the unique ability of CNNs to predict and\par
    While we base our training/testing datasets in this work on dislo\u173?                   localize GBDs in high-tilt-angle grain boundaries, which have eluded\par
cation/grain boundary structures modeled with MD simulations, we can                     well-established approaches based on Burgers circuit analysis [52,53].\par
similarly train or apply the same neural network architecture to other                   Conceivably, the neural network can be extended to also predict the\par
atomistic models of grain boundaries to predict the corresponding GBD                    Burgers vectors of GBDs in asymmetrical or metastable grain boundaries\par
structures, as long as a quantifiable measure of the atomistic stress                    [68], localize partial dislocations formed by dissociated GBDs along\par
tensor (stress-per-atom) near the grain boundary exists. In DFT calcu\u173?                   grain boundaries with different rotation axes (e.g. <110>) [28], or even\par
lations, a numerical technique termed the sequential atom removal                        quantify the mixed screw and edge character of GBDs in 3D micro\u173?\par
(SAR) method was developed to reconstruct the equivalent atomistic                       structures, by incorporating the relevant full/partial and edge/screw\par
(quantum-mechanical) stresses near a grain boundary, in which indi\u173?                      dislocation fields within the training dataset. This systematic extension\par
\par
\par
Table 2\par
Extrapolative capabilities of a CNN trained on the stress fields of actual MD grain boundaries: Detection and localization training and testing accuracies across grain\par
boundaries with various tilt-angles (\u968? ). Bold: training dataset. Non-bold: testing dataset.\par
            CNN-1                                  CNN-2                                    CNN-3                                CNN-4\par
 \u968? (\u9702? )\par
            Detect and Localize (%)                Detect and Localize (%)                  Detect and Localize (%)              Detect and Localize (%)\par
\par
            True           True         \u177?1 \u197?       True           True         \u177?1 \u197?         True           True       \u177?1 \u197?       True           True          \u177?1 \u197?\par
            positive       negative     Box        positive       negative     Box          positive       negative   Box        positive       negative      Box\par
\par
    3.28    100            100          95         100            100          88           100            100         95        100            100           100\par
    3.95    100            100          95         100            100          89           100            100         95        100            100           100\par
    4.24    100            100          95         100            100          90           100            100         95        100            100           100\par
    5.45     99            100          97         100            100          91           100            100         96        100            100            99\par
    5.73     99            100          93         100            100          90           100            100         96        100            100            98\par
    6.73    100            100          96         100            100          94           100            100         97        100            100           100\par
    8.17    100            100          94          99            100          92           100            100         96        100            100            99\par
    8.80     94            100          94          97            100          95           100            100        100         99            100           100\par
    10.39    93            100          87          96            100          92            99            100         99         99            100            99\par
    11.42    99            100          90          95            100          89           100            100         98        100            100            99\par
    12.68    99            100          88          93            100          86           100            100         96        100            100           100\par
    14.25    93             99          79          96            100          79            91             99         95        100            100            99\par
    16.26    89             99          47          88            100          66            81             99         75         96            100            99\par
    18.93    93            100          32          74            100          67            83            100         52        100            100           100\par
    22.62    96            100          17          74            100          49            78            100         33        100            100            99\par
    28.06    94             98          13          78            100          46            82             99          3         95             99            87\par
    36.86    97             99          21          71            100          20            79            100          1         97            100            10\par
\par
\par
                                                                                    11\par
W. Noh and H.B. Chew                                                                                                           Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
\par
Table 3\par
Interpolative capabilities of a CNN trained on the stress fields of actual MD grain boundaries: Detection and localization training and testing accuracies across grain\par
boundaries with various tilt-angles (\u968? ). Bold: training dataset. Non-bold: testing dataset.\par
               CNN-1                                               CNN-2                                               CNN-3\par
 \u968? (\u9702? )\par
               Detect and Localize (%)                             Detect and Localize (%)                             Detect and Localize (%)\par
\par
               True positive       True negative    \u177?1 \u197? Box       True positive        True negative   \u177?1 \u197? Box       True positive       True negative     \u177?1 \u197? Box\par
\par
    3.28       100                 100               94            100                  100              94            100                 100                95\par
    3.95       100                 100               94            100                  100              95            100                 100                96\par
    4.24       100                 100               94            100                  100              95            100                 100                96\par
    5.45        85                 100               57             92                  100              91            100                 100                95\par
    5.73        84                 100               55             89                  100              91            100                 100                95\par
    6.73        88                 100               60             93                  100              93            100                 100                93\par
    8.17        88                 100               65             94                  100              93             97                 100                95\par
    8.80        84                 100               68            100                  100              94            100                 100                95\par
    10.39       85                 100               74             99                  100              92             99                 100                99\par
    11.42       88                 100               75             94                  100              94             95                 100                98\par
    12.68       91                 100               80             94                   99              94             95                  99                96\par
    14.25       88                  99               76             98                  100              90            100                 100                99\par
    16.26       94                  97               65             94                   97              84             96                 100                93\par
    18.93      100                  99               80             99                   99              85             95                 100                91\par
    22.62      100                 100              100            100                  100             100            100                 100               100\par
    28.06       95                  99               97             95                   99              88             95                  99                91\par
    36.86       95                 100                6             89                  100              10             94                 100                23\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 10. DFT computations of GBDs for high-tilt-angle grain boundary with \u968? = 36.86\u9702? . (a) Stress-per-atom computations, with colored boxes and dislocation\par
symbols denoting sampling of detection windows for true positive edge dislocations with corresponding dislocation locations; black box: \u177?2 pixel error bound\par
centered about the actual dislocation location (black cross). (b) Comparison of DFT, TEM, and MD grain boundary structures; green and red dislocation symbols:\par
average predicted dislocation location from DFT- and MD-generated grain boundaries across all positive detection windows.\par
\par
\par
of the CNN towards more realistic microstructures is a subject of future                tilt-angle grain boundaries with overlapping core fields. This machine\par
work.                                                                                   learning approach of detecting the presence and identifying the loca\u173?\par
                                                                                        tions of dislocations with sub-angstrom accuracies is a significant\par
6. Conclusion                                                                           improvement over prior approaches based on Burgers circuit analysis,\par
                                                                                        which is typically limited to low- and moderate-tilt-angle grain bound\u173?\par
   We have demonstrated the high accuracy of CNNs in quantifying the                    aries with no overlapping cores. This representation of the atomistic\par
edge dislocation structures across a series of <001> symmetrical-tilt Cu                structures of grain boundaries, in terms of unit dislocations as funda\u173?\par
grain boundaries. We show that a training dataset generated from the                    mental elements of the boundary, paves the way for the bridging of\par
superposed MD stress fields of individual dislocations allows the CNN to                scales between MD or DFT models of grain boundaries and mesoscale\par
predict the GBD structures across a wide range of tilt angles. Training the             DDD calculations. Such accurate quantification of the dislocation\par
CNN on continuum representations of the superposed dislocation field,                   structures of grain boundaries, and hence the local strain distributions,\par
constrained to satisfy equilibrium and symmetry conditions, further                     provides rich fundamental insights into the underpinning dislocation\par
improves the localization accuracy, particularly when applied to high-                  mechanics to enable grain boundary engineering.\par
\par
\par
                                                                                   12\par
W. Noh and H.B. Chew                                                                                                                           Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
\par
CRediT authorship contribution statement                                                         [18] D.L. Medlin, S.M. Foiles, D. Cohen, A dislocation-based description of grain\par
                                                                                                      boundary dissociation: Application to a 90\u9702? <110> tilt boundary in gold, Acta\par
                                                                                                      Mater. 49 (2001) 3689\u8211?3697.\par
   William Noh: Writing \u8211? review & editing, Writing \u8211? original draft,                            [19] R.G. Hoagland, S.M. Valone, Emission of dislocations from grain boundaries by\par
Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis, Data curation. Huck Beng                                 grain boundary dissociation, Philos. Mag. 95 (2015) 112\u8211?131.\par
Chew: Writing \u8211? review & editing, Writing \u8211? original draft, Supervision,                         [20] W.T. Read, W. Shockley, Dislocation models of crystal grain boundaries, Phys. Rev.\par
                                                                                                      78 (1950) 275\u8211?289.\par
Funding acquisition, Formal analysis, Conceptualization.                                         [21] A.P. Sutton, Grain-boundary structure, Int. Met. Rev. 29 (1984) 377\u8211?404.\par
                                                                                                 [22] A.P. Sutton, V. Vitek, On the structure of tilt grain boundaries in cubic metals I.\par
                                                                                                      Symmetrical tilt boundaries, Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. A 309 (1983) 1\u8211?36.\par
Declaration of Competing Interest                                                                [23] A.P. Sutton, V. Vitek, On the structure of tilt grain boundaries in cubic metals II.\par
                                                                                                      Asymmetrical tilt boundaries, Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. A 309 (1983) 37\u8211?54.\par
    The authors declare that they have no known competing financial                              [24] A.P. Sutton, V. Vitek, On the structure of tilt grain boundaries in cubic metals. III.\par
                                                                                                      Generalizations of the structural study and implications for the properties of grain\par
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence                             boundaries, Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. A 309 (1983) 55\u8211?68.\par
the work reported in this paper.                                                                 [25] G.H. Bishop, B. Chalmers, A coincidence-ledge-dislocation description of grain\par
                                                                                                      boundaries, Scr. Metall. 2 (1968) 133\u8211?139.\par
                                                                                                 [26] J. Han, V. Vitek, D.J. Srolovitz, The grain-boundary structural unit model redux,\par
Data availability\par
                                                                                                      Acta Mater. 133 (2017) 186\u8211?199.\par
                                                                                                 [27] M.A. Tschopp, D.L. McDowell, Tension-compression asymmetry in homogeneous\par
    Data will be made available on request.                                                           dislocation nucleation in single crystal copper, Appl. Phys. Lett. 90 (2007) 121916.\par
                                                                                                 [28] R. Li, H.B. Chew, Grain boundary traction signatures: quantifying the asymmetrical\par
                                                                                                      dislocation emission processes under tension and compression, J. Mech. Phys.\par
Acknowledgements                                                                                      Solids 103 (2017) 142\u8211?154.\par
                                                                                                 [29] R. Li, H.B. Chew, Grain boundary traction signatures: quantitative predictors of\par
                                                                                                      dislocation emission, Phys. Rev. Lett. 117 (2016) 085502.\par
   This work is supported by AFOSR Aerospace Materials for Extreme\par
                                                                                                 [30] S. Mohan, R. Li, H.B. Chew, Local stress analysis of partial dislocation interactions\par
Environment Program under Award No. FA9550-19-1-0242, as well as                                      with symmetrical-tilt grain boundaries containing E-structural units, Philos. Mag.\par
the National Science Foundation (NSF) under Award Nos. NSF-DMR-18-                                    98 (2018) 2345\u8211?2366.\par
09696 and NSF-CMMI-2009684. WN acknowledges the support of a                                     [31] T.A. Khraishi, J.P. Hirth, H.M. Zbib, T. Diaz, de La Rubia, The stress field of a\par
                                                                                                      general circular Volterra dislocation loop: analytical and numerical approaches,\par
DIGI-MAT graduate fellowship based upon work supported by NSF                                         Philos. Mag. Lett. 80 (2010) 95\u8211?105.\par
under Grant No. 1922758. We also acknowledge the use of the Advanced                             [32] D. Hull, D.J. Bacon, Introduction to Dislocations, fifth ed. Elsevier, 2011.\par
Cyberinfrastructure Coordination Ecosystem: Services & Support (AC\u173?                              [33] C.H. Henager Jr, R.G. Hoagland, R.G, Dislocation core fields and forces in FCC\par
                                                                                                      metals, Scr. Mater. 50 (2004) 1091\u8211?1095.\par
CESS) through allocations MAT230069, MAT210031, and MAT230055,                                   [34] C.H. Henager Jr, R.G. Hoagland, Dislocation and stacking fault core fields in FCC\par
and TACC Frontera through allocation MSS22006.                                                        metals, Philos. Mag. 85 (2005) 4477\u8211?4508.\par
                                                                                                 [35] Q. Zhu, A. Samanta, B. Li, R.E. Rudd, T. Frolov, Predicting phase behavior of grain\par
                                                                                                      boundaries with evolutionary search and machine learning, Nat. Commun. 9\par
Appendix A. Supporting information                                                                    (2018) 467.\par
                                                                                                 [36] E.R. Homer, D.M. Hensley, C.W. Rosenbrock, A.H. Nguyen, G.L. Hart, Machine-\par
   Supplementary data associated with this article can be found in the                                learning informed representations for grain boundary structures, Front. Mater. 6\par
                                                                                                      (2019) 168.\par
online version at doi:10.1016/j.eml.2024.102138.                                                 [37] L. Huber, R. Hadian, B. Grabowski, J. Neugebauer, A machine learning approach to\par
                                                                                                      model solute grain boundary segregation, Npj Comput. Mater. 4 (2018) 1\u8211?8.\par
References                                                                                       [38] S. Zhang, L. Wang, G. Zhu, M. Diehl, A. Maldar, X. Shang, X. Zeng, Predicting grain\par
                                                                                                      boundary damage by machine learning, Int. J. Plast. 150 (2022) 103186.\par
                                                                                                 [39] Y. Cui, H.B. Chew, Machine-learning prediction of atomistic stress along grain\par
 [1] J. Kacher, B.P. Eftink, B. Cui, I.M. Robertson, Dislocation interactions with grain\par
                                                                                                      boundaries, Acta Mater. 222 (2022) 117387.\par
     boundaries, Curr. Opin. Solid State Mater. Sci. 18 (2014) 227\u8211?243.\par
                                                                                                 [40] F.T. Latypov, E.V. Fomin, V.S. Krasnikov, A.E. Mayer, Dynamic compaction of\par
 [2] J. Schi\u248?tz, K.W. Jacobsen, A maximum in the strength of nanocrystalline copper,\par
                                                                                                      aluminum with nanopores of varied shape: MD simulations and machine-learning-\par
     Science 301 (2003) 1357\u8211?1359.\par
                                                                                                      based approximation of deformation behavior, Int. J. Plast. 156 (2022) 103363.\par
 [3] M.A. Meyers, A. Mishra, D.J. Benson, Mechanical properties of nanocrystalline\par
                                                                                                 [41] D.P. Jang, P. Fazily, J.W. Yoon, Machine learning-based constitutive model for J2-\par
     materials, Prog. Mater. Sci. 51 (2006) 427\u8211?556.\par
                                                                                                      plasticity, Int. J. Plast. 138 (2021) 102919.\par
 [4] V. Yamakov, D. Wolf, S.R. Phillpot, A.K. Mukherjee, H. Gleiter, Dislocation\par
                                                                                                 [42] W. Muhammad, A.P. Brahme, O. Ibragimova, J. Kang, K. Inal, A machine learning\par
     processes in the deformation of nanocrystalline aluminum by molecular dynamics\par
                                                                                                      framework to predict local strain distribution and the evolution of plastic\par
     simulation, Nat. Mater. 1 (2002) 45\u8211?49.\par
                                                                                                      anisotropy and fracture in additively manufactured alloys, Int. J. Plast. 136 (2021)\par
 [5] Z. Shan, E.A. Stach, J.M.K. Wiezorek, J.A. Knapp, D.M. Follstaedt, S.X. Mao, Grain\par
                                                                                                      102867.\par
     boundary-mediated plasticity in nanocrystalline nickel, Science 305 (2004)\par
                                                                                                 [43] A. Mangal, E.A. Holm, Applied machine learning to predict stress hotspots I: face\par
     654\u8211?657.\par
                                                                                                      centered cubic materials, Int. J. Plast. 111 (2018) 122\u8211?134.\par
 [6] X. Li, Y. Wei, L. Lu, K. Lu, H. Gao, Dislocation nucleation governed softening and\par
                                                                                                 [44] X. Li, C.C. Roth, D. Mohr, Machine-learning based temperature- and rate-\par
     maximum strength in nano-twinned metals, Nature 464 (2010) 877\u8211?880.\par
                                                                                                      dependent plasticity model: application to analysis of fracture experiments on DP\par
 [7] R. Li, H.B. Chew, Deformation twinning and plastic recovery in Cu/Ag nanolayers\par
                                                                                                      steel, Int. J. Plast. 118 (2019) 320\u8211?344.\par
     under uniaxial tensile straining, Philos. Mag. Lett. 94 (2014) 260\u8211?268.\par
                                                                                                 [45] J. Chapman, R. Batra, R. Ramprasad, Machine learning models for the prediction of\par
 [8] R. Li, H.B. Chew, Planar-to-wavy transition of Cu\u8211?Ag nanolayered metals: a\par
                                                                                                      energy, forces, and stresses for Platinum, Comput. Mater. Sci. 174 (2020) 109483.\par
     precursor mechanism to twinning, Philos. Mag. 95 (2015) 1029\u8211?1048.\par
                                                                                                 [46] A.P. Thompson, H.M. Aktulga, R. Berger, D.S. Bolintineanu, W.M. Brown, P.\par
 [9] R. Li, H.B. Chew, Closed and open-ended stacking fault tetrahedra formation along\par
                                                                                                      S. Crozier, P.J. in \u8217?t Veld, A. Kohlmeyer, S.G. Moore, T.D. Nguyen, R. Shan, M.\par
     the interfaces of Cu\u8211?Al nanolayered metals, Philos. Mag. 95 (2015) 2747\u8211?2763.\par
                                                                                                      J. Stevens, J. Tranchida, C. Trott, S.J. Plimpton, LAMMPS \u8211? a flexible simulation\par
[10] D.V. Bachurin, D. Weygand, P. Gumbsch, Dislocation\u8211?grain boundary interaction\par
                                                                                                      tool for particle-based materials modeling at the atomic, meso, and continuum\par
     in <111> textured thin metal films, Acta Mater. 58 (2010) 5232\u8211?5241.\par
                                                                                                      scales, Comp, Phys. Comm. 271 (2022) 108171.\par
[11] M. Huang, S. Huang, S. Liang, Y. Zhu, Z. Li, An efficient 2D discrete dislocation\par
                                                                                                 [47] S.M. Foiles, M.I. Baskes, M.S. Daw, Embedded-atom-method functions for the fcc\par
     dynamics-XFEM coupling framework and its application to polycrystal plasticity,\par
                                                                                                      metals Cu, Ag, Au, Ni, Pd, Pt, and their alloys, Phys. Rev. B 33 (1986) 7983.\par
     Int. J. Plast. 127 (2020) 102647.\par
                                                                                                 [48] F. Cleri, V. Rosato, Tight-binding potentials for transition metals and alloys, Phys.\par
[12] S.S. Quek, Z. Wu, Y.W. Zhang, D.J. Srolovitz, Polycrystal deformation in a discrete\par
                                                                                                      Rev. B 48 (1993) 22.\par
     dislocation dynamics framework, Acta Mater. 75 (2014) 92\u8211?105.\par
                                                                                                 [49] N.W. Ashcroft, N.D. Mermin, Solid State Physics, Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, New\par
[13] R. Kumar, F. Sze\u769?kely, E. Van Der Giessen, Modelling dislocation transmission\par
                                                                                                      York, 1976.\par
     across tilt grain boundaries in 2D, Comput. Mater. Sci. 49 (2010) 46\u8211?54.\par
                                                                                                 [50] G. Simmons, H. Wang, Single Crystal Elastic Constants and Calculated Aggregated\par
[14] N. Ahmed, A. Hartmaier, Mechanisms of grain boundary softening and strain-rate\par
                                                                                                      Properties: A Hand Book, MIT Press, Cambridge, 1971.\par
     sensitivity in deformation of ultrafine-grained metals at high temperatures, Acta\par
                                                                                                 [51] J.P. Hirth, R.C. Pond, R.G. Hoagland, X.-Y. Liu, J. Wang, Interface defects,\par
     Mater. 59 (2011) 4323\u8211?4334.\par
                                                                                                      reference spaces and the Frank\u8211?Bilby equation, Prog. Mater. Sci. 58 (2013)\par
[15] C. Zhou, R. LeSar, Dislocation dynamics simulations of plasticity in polycrystalline\par
                                                                                                      749\u8211?823.\par
     thin films, Int. J. Plast. 30-31 (2012) 185\u8211?201.\par
                                                                                                 [52] A. Stukowski, Visualization and analysis of atomistic simulation data with\par
[16] X. Zhang, S. Lu, B. Zhang, X. Tian, Q. Kan, G. Kang, Dislocation\u8211?grain boundary\par
                                                                                                      OVITO\u8211?the Open Visualization Tool, Model. Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 18 (2010)\par
     interaction-based discrete dislocation dynamics modeling and its application to\par
                                                                                                      015012.\par
     bicrystals with different misorientations, Acta Mater. 202 (2021) 88\u8211?98.\par
                                                                                                 [53] A. Stukowski, K. Albe, Extracting dislocations and non-dislocation crystal defects\par
[17] J.W. Cahn, Y. Mishin, A. Suzuki, Duality of dislocation content of grain boundaries,\par
                                                                                                      from atomistic simulation data, Model. Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 18 (2010) 085001.\par
     Philos. Mag. 86 (2006) 3965\u8211?3980.\par
\par
\par
                                                                                            13\par
W. Noh and H.B. Chew                                                                                                                              Extreme Mechanics Letters 68 (2024) 102138\par
\par
[54] L. Alzubaidi, J. Zhang, A.J. Humaidi, A. Al-Dujaili, Y. Duan, O. Al-Shamma,                     [61] M.D. Sangid, H.J. Maier, H. Sehitoglu, The role of grain boundaries on fatigue\par
     J. Santamaria, M.A. Fadhel, M. Al-Amidie, L. Farhan, Review of deep learning:                        crack initiation \u8211? an energy approach, Int. J. Plast. 27 (2011) 801\u8211?821.\par
     concepts, CNN architectures, challenges, applications, future directions, J. Big Data           [62] Y. Cui, H.B. Chew, A simple numerical approach for reconstructing the atomic\par
     8 (2021) 53.                                                                                         stresses at grain boundaries from quantum-mechanical calculations, J. Chem. Phys.\par
[55] D.L. McDowell, A perspective on trends in multiscale plasticity, Int. J. Plast. 26                   150 (2019) 144702.\par
     (2010) 1280\u8211?1309.                                                                               [63] G. Duscher, M. Chisholm, U. Alber, M. R\u252?hle, Bismuth-induced embrittlement of\par
[56] G.J. Tucker, D.L. McDowell, Non-equilibrium grain boundary structure and                             copper grain boundaries, Na. Mater. 3 (2004) 621\u8211?626.\par
     inelastic deformation using atomistic simulations, Int. J. Plast. 27 (2011) 841\u8211?857.            [64] C.T. Koch, V.B. O\u776?zdo\u776?l, P.A.Van Aken, An efficient, simple, and precise way to map\par
[57] G.J. Tucker, S.M. Foiles, Quantifying the influence of twin boundaries on the                        strain with nanometer resolution in semiconductor devices, Appl. Phys. Lett. 96\par
     deformation of nanocrystalline copper using atomistic simulations, Int. J. Plast. 65                 (2010) 091901.\par
     (2015) 191\u8211?205.                                                                                 [65] M. H\u255?tch, F. Houdellier, F. H\u252?e, E. Snoeck, Nanoscale holographic interferometry\par
[58] Q. Huang, Q. Zhao, H. Zhou, W. Yang, Misorientation-dependent transition                             for strain measurements in electronic devices, Nature 453 (2008) 1086\u8211?1089.\par
     between grain boundary migration and sliding in FCC metals, Int. J. Plast. 159                  [66] A. Be\u769?che\u769?, J.L. Rouvie\u768?re, J.P. Barnes, D. Cooper, Strain measurement at the\par
     (2022) 103466.                                                                                       nanoscale: comparison between convergent beam electron diffraction, nano-beam\par
[59] E.N. Borodin, A.E. Mayer, M. Yu Gutkin, Coupled model for grain rotation,                            electron diffraction, high resolution imaging and dark field electron holography,\par
     dislocation plasticity and grain boundary sliding in fine-grained solids, Int. J. Plast.             Ultramicroscopy 131 (2013) 10\u8211?23.\par
     134 (2020) 102776.                                                                              [67] M. Legros, In situ mechanical TEM: seeing and measuring under stress with\par
[60] H. Lim, M.G. Lee, J.H. Kim, B.L. Adams, R.H. Wagoner, Simulation of polycrystal                      electrons, Comptes Rendus Phys. 15 (2014) 224\u8211?240.\par
     deformation with grain and grain boundary effects, Int. J. Plast. 27 (2011)                     [68] J. Han, V. Vitek, D.J. Srolovitz, Grain-boundary metastability and its statistical\par
     1328\u8211?1354.                                                                                           properties, Acta Mater. 104 (2016) 259\u8211?273.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                14\par

}