{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257\par
\par
Metals & corrosion\par
\par
\par
\par
Dislocation\u8211?grain boundary interactions in Ta:\par
numerical, molecular dynamics, and machine\par
learning approaches\par
A. Kedharnath1,2,* , Rajeev Kapoor1,2, and Apu Sarkar1,2\par
\par
1\par
    Mechanical Metallurgy Division, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai 400085, India\par
2\par
    Division of Engineering Sciences, Homi Bhabha National Institute, Anushaktinagar, Mumbai 400094, India\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
    Received: 25 September 2023         ABSTRACT\par
    Accepted: 11 November 2023          The motivation of this work was to find the appropriate molecular dynamics\par
    Published online:                   (MD) and slip transmission parameters of dislocation\u8211?grain boundary (GB) inter-\par
    21 December 2023                    action in tantalum that correlate with the stress required for the grain boundary\par
                                        to deform. GBs were modeled using [ 112], [ 110], and [111] as rotation axes and\par
    \u169? The Author(s), under              rotation angle between 0\u176? and 90\u176?. Dislocation on either \{110\} or \{112\} slip planes\par
    exclusive licence to Springer       was simulated to interact with various GB configurations. Drop in shear stress,\par
    Science+Business Media, LLC,        drop in potential energy, critical distance between dislocation and GB, and critical\par
    part of Springer Nature, 2023       shear stress for dislocation absorption by the GB were the parameters calculated\par
                                        from MD simulations of dislocation\u8211?GB interactions. Machine learning models\par
                                        eXtreme Gradient Boosting and SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) were\par
                                        used to find the correlation between the various parameters and yield stress of the\par
                                        GB configurations. Machine learning results showed that the MD parameters\u8212?\par
                                        critical distance between the dislocation and GB, drop in shear stress; and slip\par
                                        transmission parameter\u8212?m\u8242? have a stronger correlation with yield stress. The\par
                                        SHAP results sorted the prominent slip plane and rotation axis affecting the yield\par
                                        stress. The configurations with dislocation on \{112\} slip plane, and configurations\par
                                        with [111] rotation axis were difficult to deform (higher yield stress of GB) than\par
                                        \{110\} slip plane and [ 11 2] and [ 110] rotation axes configurations.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Handling Editor: Ghanshyam Pilania.\par
\par
Address correspondence to E-mail: kedharnath1992@gmail.com; kedharnath@barc.gov.in\par
\par
\par
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10853-023-09167-y\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                             Vol.:(0123456789)\par
244                                                                                  J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257\par
\par
\par
\par
                                GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Introduction                                               et al. found a cutoff value of 0.7 for the modified m\u8242?\par
                                                           parameter below which slip transmission was dif-\par
The plastic deformation of crystalline materials is        ficult [3]. Patriarca et al. identified strain field and\par
governed by the movement of a large number of dis-         residual burger vector ( RBV which is the magnitude\par
locations. By creating obstacles to dislocations, the      of the difference between the Burgers vectors of the\par
strength of a material can be improved. Obstacles          incoming and outgoing dislocations) to be the prom-\par
can be other dislocations, grain boundaries (GBs),         ising parameters to study dislocation\u8211?\u8211?GB interac-\par
precipitates, or solute atoms. Dislocation\u8211?GB inter-       tions in bcc FeCr [2]. These experimental results\par
action plays an important role in the GB strength-         helped us understand the effect of GB types on slip\par
ening mechanism. The type of interactions disloca-         transmission. However, the researchers also reported\par
tions have with GBs determine their strengthening          ambiguity in the STPs. Hansen et al. did not find\par
ability. The interactions can be either the pileup         a correlation between modified m\u8242? and RBV param-\par
mechanism, absorption of dislocation in the GB, or         eters with the GB dislocation density [16]. Bieler\par
transmission of the dislocation to the neighboring         et al. found scatter in the observed and theoretical\par
grain. These interactions depend on the dislocation        results of slip transfer for bcc Ta [4]. Bayerschen et al.\par
and GB types. Hall\u8211?Petch relation [1], which relates       opened several questions on the use of these param-\par
the yield strength of the material with the GB spac-       eters from experimental and computational points of\par
ing, lacks the knowledge of the type of GB. Electron       view for general types of GBs other than \u931? GBs [17].\par
microscopic experiments [2\u8211?7] and atomistic simula-        The usefulness of these STPs in identifying the slip\par
tions [8\u8211?13] have been carried out to understand the       transmission with various slip planes of bcc materi-\par
dislocation\u8211?GB interaction, specifically the slip trans-   als is still not studied.\par
mission through various GBs. The slip transmission            Molecular dynamics (MD) technique is a power-\par
was quantified through slip transmission parameters        ful tool for studying atomistic behavior of materials\par
(STPs) based on the crystallographic orientation of        [18\u8211?22]. Spearot et al. brought out the challenges in\par
the bicrystals forming the GB. The barrier for dislo-      MD simulations and showed that most of the inves-\par
cations to transmit through \u931? GBs was found to be          tigations were in \u931? GBs [23]. Tsuru et al. found that\par
dependent on their GB energies [14]. Kacher et al.         the results of atomistic simulations of slip trans-\par
concluded that the residual strain in the GB of tita-      mission through \u931?3 GBs were in contrast to the\par
nium was the primary parameter for slip transmis-          predictions by STPs [24]. Kapoor et al. performed\par
sion irrespective of the type of dislocation [15]. Guo     dislocation dynamics simulations of dislocations\par
J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257                                                                                             245\par
\par
\par
\par
interaction with low angle GBs (LAGBs) and found           STPs (32 configurations with each configuration hav-\par
that the shear stress to overcome the GB followed the      ing either the \{110\} or \{112\} slip plane, thus making 64\par
Hall\u8211?Petch relation [25]. There is a need for studying     such configurations).\par
other types of GBs for their slip-resistance property.        As the orientation of the IN grain was fixed, the vectors\par
Though the above-mentioned experiments and simu-           n\u119842?\u119847?, b\u119842?\u119847?, and l\u119842?\u119847? were fixed for a slip system. Depending on\par
lations studies provided a reasonable understand-          the rotation of the neighboring grain, the vectors n\u119848?\u119854?\u119853?, b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853?,\par
ing on the dislocation\u8211?GB interactions, the relation       and l\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? changed and so the angle between these vectors\par
between STPs and the strength of a material is still       changed which led to the change in the values of the STP.\par
unresolved. This is essential for understanding the        The STPs are listed here:\par
physical meaning of the STPs.                                     (          )(          )\par
   The motivation of this article is to find the appro-    m\u65533? = n\u119842?\u119847? \u8901? n\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? b\u119842?\u119847? \u8901? b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? = cos\u120595? cos\u120581?                    (1)\par
priate dislocation\u8211?GB interaction parameters that best\par
                                                              (          )(         ) (          )(          )\par
represent the yield stress of the GB with dislocation      N = n\u119842?\u119847? \u8901? n\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? b\u119842?\u119847? \u8901? b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? + n\u119842?\u119847? \u8901? b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? b\u119842?\u119847? \u8901? n\u119848?\u119854?\u119853?\par
on either \{110\} or \{112\} slip planes in bcc tantalum. To                                                                  (2)\par
                                                                = cos\u120595? cos\u120581? + cos\u120574? cos\u120575?\par
do this, numerical calculations of STPs, MD simula-\par
tions of dislocation\u8211?GB interactions, and explainable           (          )(         )\par
machine learning (ML) approaches were used. STPs\par
                                                           LRB = l\u119842?\u119847? \u8901? l\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? b\u119842?\u119847? \u8901? b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? = cos\u120579? cos\u120581?                        (3)\par
available in the literature were numerically calcu-\par
                                                              (          )(         )(         )\par
lated. MD, a versatile atomistic simulation technique      s = n\u119842?\u119847? \u8901? n\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? b\u119842?\u119847? \u8901? b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? l\u119842?\u119847? \u8901? l\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? = cos\u120595? cos\u120581? cos\u120579?\par
to study the mechanical behavior of metallic systems                                                                      (4)\par
at the atomic level [26], was used for simulating the             90\par
                                                                    (\u9702?\par
                                                                             (        )\par
                                                                                       )      ( \u9702?\par
                                                                                               90       (           )\par
                                                                                                                      )\par
dislocation\u8211?GB interactions. The slip transmission         \u120582? =cos\par
                                                                   \u120595?c\par
                                                                       arccos n\u119842?\u119847? \u8901? n\u119848?\u119854?\u119853?   cos\par
                                                                                               \u120581?c\par
                                                                                                  arccos b\u119842?\u119847? \u8901? b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853?\par
parameters and parameters computed from MD simu-                    ( \u9702? ) ( \u9702? )\par
                                                                      90 \u120595?          90 \u120581?\par
lations were used as input to eXtreme Gradient Boost-         = cos\par
                                                                        \u120595?c\par
                                                                             cos\par
                                                                                     \u120581?c\par
                                                                                         ,\par
                                                                                                                          (5)\par
ing (XGBoost) [27] and SHapley Additive exPlanations\par
(SHAP) [28] to determine and explain which of these        where \u120595?c and \u120581?c are critical values for slip transmis-\par
parameters most importantly affect the yield stress of     sion, taken to be \u120595?c = 15\u9702? and \u120581?c = 45\u9702? [29]. Resolved\par
the GB.                                                    shear stress ( RSS) was calculated using the rotation of\par
                                                           the applied stress state \u120648? applied onto the rotated OUT\par
                                                           grain as,\par
Methodology                                                       (             )        ((            )      )\par
                                                           RSS = \u120648? rotate \u8901? n\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? \u8901? b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? = R\u120648? applied R\u119827? \u8901? n\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? \u8901? b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? ,\par
                                                                                                                  (6)\par
The article contains three parts\u8212?dislocation\u8211?GB inter-\par
action using MD simulations, numerical calculations        where R is the rotation matrix [30] calculated with\par
of STPs, and feature analysis using ML. Each sub-sec-      rotation angle \u120579?r and rotation axis t as [30],\par
tion will detail each part of the work. The orientations             |1 0 0|                | t2 t t t t |\par
of the grains and GB configurations were similar in                  |\par
                                                                     |\par
                                                                             | (\par
                                                                             |            )|| 1 122 1 3 ||\par
                                                            R =cos\u120579?r | 0 1 0 | + 1 \u8722? cos\u120579?r | t2 t1 t2 t2 t3 |\par
MD simulations and numerical calculations of STPs.                   |\par
                                                                     |0 0 1|\par
                                                                             |              |                 |\par
                                                                                            | t3 t1 t3 t2 t 2 |\par
                                                                     |       |              |              3 |\par
\par
Slip transmission parameters\par
                                                                        | 0 \u8722?t t |\par
                                                                        |       3  2 |\par
                                                                        |             |\par
                                                                + sin\u120579?r | t3 0 \u8722?t1 |,\par
                                                                        |             |\par
Slip transmission through GBs can be quantified using                   | \u8722?t2 t1 0 |\par
                                                                        |             |                                   (7)\par
parameters based on the vectors shown in Fig. 1a. In\par
the numerical calculations, a non-inclined bicrystal GB    where t1 , t2 , and t3 are the unit vector components of\par
configuration was used with one grain (IN) contain-        the rotation axis t. The \u120648? applied was chosen such that\par
ing the in-coming dislocation and the other neighbor-      RSS = 1 on the slip plane of IN grain for both \{110\} and\par
ing grain (OUT) was rotated about either [ 112]/[110]/     \{112\} cases. That is, if Eq. (6) had n\u119842?\u119847? and b\u119842?\u119847? , then the\par
[111] axes as shown in Fig. 1b. The dislocation was        RSS = 1 for both \{110\} and \{112\} slip plane cases. To\par
modeled to slip on either the \{110\} or \{112\} planes as     calculate these parameters for a given GB configura-\par
shown in Fig. 1c resulting in 64 data points of various    tion, the slip system in the IN grain was fixed and the\par
246                                                                                                   J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Figure 1\u8194?\u8201?a Schematic illustration of slip transmission from IN        Schematic illustrations of GB configurations with dislocation on\par
grain to OUT grain through GBP. The slip plane in the IN grain         two different slip planes for a given rotation axis. For [ 1 1 2] and\par
containing the dislocation is shown in blue color and the pos-         [111] rotation axes, slip plane 1 represent \{110\} and slip plane 2\par
sible slip plane of the rotated OUT grain is shown in red color.       represent \{112\} while for [ 110] rotation axis slip plane 1 repre-\par
By the slip transmission theory, the misorientation between the        sent \{112\} and slip plane 2 represent \{110\}. The arrows represent\par
OUT and IN grains can be by any arbitrary rotation axis and rota-      the shear direction. d Orientations along X direction shown on a\par
tion angle. The GBP between two differently oriented grains is         standard triangle of the stereographic projection. The red colored\par
shown in green color. n\u119842?\u119847? and n\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? are the slip plane normals of       symbols represent [ 1 1 2] tilt GB configurations, the blue colored\par
the incoming and outgoing dislocations, respectively. b\u119842?\u119847? and          symbols represent [ 110] tilt GB configurations, and the green\par
b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? are the Burger vectors of incoming and outgoing disloca-          colored symbols represent [111] twist GB configurations. The\par
tions, respectively. l\u119842?\u119847? and l\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? are dislocation line directions of   central grain in each of the GB configurations ([1 1 2] tilt, [ 110]\par
the incoming and outgoing dislocations, respectively. The angle        tilt, [111] twist) are 1, 12, and 23, respectively. The orientation of\par
between n\u119842?\u119847? and n\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? is \u936?, between b\u119842?\u119847? and b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? is \u954?, between l\u119842?\u119847?      the other numberings is referred in Table s1 in the supplementary\par
and l\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? is \u952?, between b\u119842?\u119847? and n\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? is \u947?, and between b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? and n\u119842?\u119847?     file. e GBE as a function of the rotation angle\par
is \u948?. b Coordinate axes and directions for three rotation axes. c\par
\par
\par
script containing the code stabix [31] and the program                 looped over every slip system, the vectors n\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? , b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? ,\par
MTEX [32] was run for all the possible 48 slip systems                 and l\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? changed accordingly.\par
in the rotated OUT grain to obtain STP. As the script                     Residual burger vector (RBV) is the magnitude of the\par
                                                                       difference between b\u119842?\u119847? and b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? as,\par
J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257                                                                                        247\par
\par
\par
\par
RBV = ||br || = ||b\u119842?\u119847? \u8722? b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? || = ||b\u119842?\u119847? \u8722? Rbin ||,    (8)   Simulations were run using LAMMPS [38] and visual-\par
                                                            ized using OVITO [39].\par
where b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? was calculated directly by b\u119848?\u119854?\u119853? = Rbin . For\par
slip transmission to occur m\u8242? , N , LRB , \u955?, s , and RSS    Machine learning models\par
should be maximum, while RBV should be minimum.\par
                                                            Machine learning was used to correlate the STPs and\par
Molecular dynamics simulations                              MD parameters to the stress at which the GB either\par
                                                            absorbs or transmits the incoming dislocation, called\par
The transmission of dislocations through various GBs        as yield stress of the GB. To do this, the slip trans-\par
was also simulated using molecular dynamics. The            mission and MD parameters were taken as input \u8216?fea-\par
asymmetric tilt/twist GB configurations were modeled        tures\u8217? and yield of the GB was taken as output target\par
with [ 1 1 2] and [ 110] as tilt axes and [111] as twist    for ML models\u8212?XGBoost (version 1.7.6) and SHAP.\par
axis (Fig. 1b). The central grain (similar to IN grain in   The pre-processing step involved feature engineering\par
"Slip transmission parameters" section) was fixed to        in which a Pearson correlation plot was used to find\par
enable the slip of an edge dislocation on either \{110\}      the dependence between the features so as to decide\par
or \{112\} slip planes and the neighboring grains were        on the features to use during ML. Randomly selected\par
rotated about either [ 1 12]/[110]/[111] between 0\u176? and     75% of the data was used for training and the remain-\par
90\u176?. Thus, with 32 different GB configurations and 2        ing 25% for testing. XGBoost minimizes the objective\par
slip planes, 64 MD simulations were carried out. The        function\par
orientation of the rotated grains is shown in Fig. 1d.            [K                         ]\par
The two rotated grains on either side of the central                \u8721? (                    )\par
                                                                                                               (9)\par
                                                                                                  1\par
                                                            obj =       L yi , p0i + Ovalue + \u120574?T + \u120582?ML Ovalue\par
                                                                                                        2\par
grain had similar orientations/rotations and the grain\u8217?s            i=1\par
                                                                                                  2\par
dimensions were equal to the integer multiple of the\par
magnitude of the direction vectors to obtain periodic       to predict the output value Ovalue using gradient-\par
boundaries along GB normal (GBN) and GB plane               boosted trees [27]. The first term of Eq. (9) is the sum-\par
(GBP). The central grain was translated along GBP           mation of the loss function L for K number of observa-\par
and equilibrated using conjugate gradient method            tions in the training data [40]. L is a function of the\par
to arrive at the lowest energy configuration. The GB        observed output target values from MD simulations\par
energy (GBE) was calculated as the excess of cohesive       yi , the initially predicted value p0i which is usually\par
energy due to the GB [33, 34]. The GBE as a function        taken as 0.5, and the predicted output value Ovalue . \u120574? is\par
of rotation angle is shown in Fig. 1e and the values are    for pruning and T is the number of terminal nodes in\par
tabulated in Table s1. Atomsk [35] was used to insert       a tree. The last term is the regularization term with the\par
an edge dislocation by adding an extra plane of atoms       regularization parameter \u120582?ML . The XGBoost hyperpa-\par
along \u9001?110\u9002? in the central grain. The configurations        rameters were optimized to arrive at the lowest root\par
were sheared by altering the simulation box with a          mean square\u65533? error (RMSE) possible calculated as,\par
shear strain of \u173?10\u8211?5 along [111] and equilibrated using\par
                                                                          \u8721?M\par
                                                                            t=1 (yt \u8722?Ovalue )\par
                                                                                             2\par
                                                            RMSE =                             , where M is the number of\par
conjugate gradient method [36]. The direction [111]                                M\par
\par
was selected as the shear direction as it is the slip       observations in the test data. The explanation of the\par
direction for the dislocation in bcc system. All simula-    XGBoost model f was carried out using SHAP. SHAP\par
tions were carried out with a system temperature of         trains the model on each feature subset S taken from\par
0 K using an interatomic potential developed by Chen        the set of all features F . The importance of each feature\par
et al. [37]. The system temperature of 0 K was chosen       is calculated\par
                                                                  (         )by training the model with( the   feature\par
                                                                                                             )\par
to exclude any effect due to thermal fluctuations. The      fS\u8746?\{j\} xS\u8746?\{j\} and without the feature fS xS where x\par
choice of this potential was made after checking the        is the value of the input feature. The SHAP value of a\par
lattice constant, cohesive energy, elastic constants and    feature is calculated as,\par
core structure of screw dislocation in bulk Ta predicted           \u8721? |S|!(|F| \u8722? |S| \u8722? 1)! [       (      )    ( )]\par
by the potential with that of the experimental and first    \u120601?j =                            fS\u8746?\{j\} xS\u8746?\{j\} \u8722? fS xS .\par
                                                                             |F|!\par
principles data. The configurations were referred to by            S\u8838?F\par
                                  \u65533?          \u65533?\par
the notation \u10216?rotation_axis\u10217?\u8725?\u120579? \u9702? \u8725? slip_plane represent-                                                          (10)\par
ing the rotation axis, rotation angle, and slip plane.\par
248                                                                                                   J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Figure 2\u8194?\u8201?Schematic flowchart of the work carried out in this article. MD parameters \u120591?cr , \u916?\u120591? , \u916?PE, and Dcr are discussed in Sect. "Molec-\par
ular dynamics simulations"\par
\par
\par
   All data were used for SHAP analysis. The data                       Molecular dynamics simulations\par
and scripts for numerical calculation, MD, and ML are\par
available in the GitHub link. The schematic flowchart                   The slip transmission through GB can be visual-\par
of the work carried out is shown in Fig. 2.                             ized as a three-stage process of pile-up, absorption,\par
                                                                        and transmission. The pile-up of dislocations was\par
                                                                        observed in \u10216?112\u10217?\u8725?16\u9702? \u8725?\{110\} , \u10216?110\u10217?\u8725?8\u9702? \u8725?\{112\} , and\par
Results and discussion                                                  \u10216?110\u10217?\u8725?11\u9702? \u8725?\{112\}. Partial pile-up similar to a discon-\par
                                                                        nection formation in the GB surface was observed\par
Slip transmission parameters                                            in \u10216?110\u10217?\u8725?86\u9702? \u8725?\{112\} and \u10216?111\u10217?\u8725?81\u9702? \u8725?\{110\} . Absorp-\par
                                                                        tion followed by transmission was observed in\par
The main observations from Fig. 3 were as follows.                      \u10216?112\u10217?\u8725?11\u9702? \u8725?\{110\} , \u10216?112\u10217?\u8725?11\u9702? \u8725?\{112\} , \u10216?112\u10217?\u8725?16\u9702? \u8725?\{112\},\par
First, m\u8242? , LRB , and RSS (i.e., Eqs. 1,3, and 6) did not               \u10216?110\u10217?\u8725?8\u9702? \u8725?\{110\} , \u10216?110\u10217?\u8725?11\u9702? \u8725?\{110\} , \u10216?110\u10217?\u8725?70\u9702? \u8725?\{112\} ,\par
show sensitivity to [111] twist GB configurations. The                  \u10216?111\u10217?\u8725?8\u9702? \u8725?\{110\} , \u10216?111\u10217?\u8725?16\u9702? \u8725?\{110\} , \u10216?111\u10217?\u8725?8\u9702? \u8725?\{112\} ,\par
prediction of slip transmission in twist GB configura-                  \u10216?111\u10217?\u8725?16\u9702? \u8725?\{112\}, and \u10216?111\u10217?\u8725?60\u9702? \u8725?\{112\}. The interaction\par
tions is of importance because the orientations in twist                of dislocation with the LAGB showed the formation\par
GB configurations correspond to the orientations of                     of dislocation networks during pinning and looping.\par
\u947? fiber in bcc which are formed during plastic defor-                   The snapshots of configurations in which disloca-\par
mation [41, 42]. Further, RBV and LRB could not dif-                    tions in the GB were visible are shown in Fig. 4 and\par
ferentiate between dislocations on \{110\} or \{112\} slip                  their videos are attached as supplementary file.\par
planes, but experimental and simulation results have                        The dislocation\u8211?GB interactions using MD simula-\par
shown that \{110\}\u10216?111\u10217? and \{112\}\u10216?111\u10217? slip systems have                  tions were quantified using parameters such as critical\par
different CRSS values [43].                                             shear stress for absorption of dislocation by the GB\par
                                                                        ( \u120591?cr in MPa), drop in shear stress ( \u916?\u120591? in MPa), drop\par
J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257                                                                                                 249\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Figure 3\u8194?\u8201?Slip transmission parameters calculated with orientations of the rotated grains for various GB configurations\par
\par
\par
\par
in potential energy ( \u916?PE in eV), and critical distance                where T = \u120572?Gb2 , and the distance between the source\par
between the dislocation and GB just before the absorp-                 and GB is L = d\u8725?2 with d being the GB spacing. Hence,\par
tion of a dislocation ( Dcr in nm). These were recorded                          \u8730?\par
at the event of dislocation absorption or piling-up near                           2\u120591?cr \u120572?Gb\par
                                                                                                                        (12)\par
                                                                       \u120591?y = \u120591?o +\par
the GB as shown in Figs. S1 and S2 in the supplemen-\par
                                                                                            .\par
                                                                                       d\par
tary file. Figure 5a shows that \u120591?cr was high for [ 11 2]\par
                                                                          The yield stress ( \u120590?y ) and shear stress at yield of the\par
tilt axis configurations with \{110\} slip being dominant.\par
                                                                       GB configuration \u120591?y are related through a constant A\par
According to the dislocation pile-up model [25, 44,\par
                                                                       as,\par
45], the shear stress reaches a critical value \u120591?y when\par
                                                                                           \u65533?\par
the dislocation gets either absorbed by or transmitted                                         2\u120591?cr \u120572?Gb         kHP\par
through the GB and is expressed as,                                    \u120590?y = A\u120591?y = A\u120591?o + A               = \u120590?o + \u8730?              (13)\par
                                                                                                   d              d\par
           \u8730?\par
              \u120591?cr T                                                                                               \u8730?\par
\u120591?y = \u120591?o +                                           (11)               where the Hall\u8211?Petch constant is kHP = A 2\u120591?cr \u120572?Gb .\par
                                                                       For pure Ta, \u120572? \u8776? 1, G = 69 GPa, b = 0.2863 nm, and \u120590?o\par
               Lb\par
250                                                                                                 J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Figure 4\u8194?\u8201?MD snapshots of dislocation interaction with GB configurations which had dislocations. The dislocations with Burgers vector\par
type \u10216?111\u10217? are colored green, \u10216?110\u10217? are colored blue, \u10216?100\u10217? are colored pink, other types are colored red. The GB configurations which\par
are difficult to visualize using the above are shown using atoms only whose neighbors are not equal to eight. Atoms with eight neighbors\par
are removed for better visualization. The incoming dislocation is shown using dotted red colored oval/circle. a Interactions of parallel\par
dislocations while b interactions of perpendicular dislocations where one dislocation is the incoming and other is in the GB. This is\par
independent for twist GB configurations\par
J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257                                                                                                         251\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Figure 5\u8194?\u8201?The values of the parameters calculated from MD             as symbols in the key figure. The orientations of the rotated\par
simulations are represented as circles with the orientation of the    grains (numbering as in Table s1) lie on the lines represented by\par
rotated grain for various GB configurations as the location on the    various colors and rotation axes. The value of \u966?1 lies between\par
Euler space. The pink open circles represent \{110\} slip plane and     0\u176? and 90\u176? as orthotropic symmetry was assumed. And also, for\par
the cyan open circles represent \{112\} slip plane for a\u8211?d and f.       ease of representation of [ 1 1 2] and [ 110] tilt GB configurations,\par
The size/radius of the circle is proportional to the values of the    \u966?2 of these two configurations are shifted from 225\u176? and 315\u176? to\par
MD parameters but the scaling factor is different between the         45\u176?. Figures 5e and 5 g represent the variation of drop in shear\par
parameters. The key figure for 5a-5d and 5f is shown in 5 h. The      stress and critical distance as a function of rotation angle con-\par
orientations of the central grains for each rotation axis are shown   nected by the b-spline curve\par
\par
\par
                                                                               [       ( )]\par
= 80 MPa. The value of A = 7 is chosen so as to get a                     K\u120579?\u120574?m           \u120579?\par
                                                                                                                                      (14)\par
                         \u8730?                                            E\par
value of kHP = 476MPa \u956?m close to that found in the                     =        1 \u8722? ln     .\par
                                                                      V   d\u120579?m           \u120579?m\par
literature [42].\par
   The stored energy due to the GB ( E ) per molar vol-               where K = 3.31 , \u120574?m = 966mJ\u8725?m2 , and \u120579?m = 23\u9702? [46].\par
ume ( V ) of Ta for rotation angle \u120579? is [46],                         The stored energy can be substituted by the GBE\par
                                                                      ( Egb ) occupying a unit meter squared area of Agb , thus\par
                                                                      Eq. (14) becomes,\par
252                                                                                               J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257\par
\par
\par
\par
Egb Agb       K\u120579?\u120574?m\par
                   [       ( )]\par
                             \u120579?                                       of coarse-grained Ta [42]. Negligible variation in \u120590?y\par
          =          1 \u8722? ln     .                          (15)      between slip planes was observed except in case of\par
  V           d\u120579?m           \u120579?m\par
                                                                     \u10216?112\u10217?\u8725?63\u9702? \u8725?\{112\} as in Fig. 5b.\par
  Rearranging Eq. (15) gives                                            During the initial deformation, the increase in the\par
          [      ( )]                                                PE and shear stress \u964? corresponds to the energy and\par
   VK\u120579?\u120574?m           \u120579?                                                 stress accumulation, respectively. The sudden drop\par
d=\par
   Egb \u120579?m\par
           1 \u8722? ln\par
                  \u120579?m\par
                       .                                   (16)\par
                                                                     in PE and \u964? corresponds to the absorption of the dis-\par
                                                                     location by the GB. GBs act as sinks for dislocations\par
   Substituting the expression of d in Eq. (13) gives\par
                                                                     that results in a reduction in the strain energy. As\par
           \u8730?\par
           \u8730?\par
                  2\u120591?cr GbEgb \u120579?m                                      the strain energy of an edge dislocation is constant\par
           \u8730?\par
\u120590?y = \u120590?o + A\u8730?\par
           \u8730?         [       ( )] .                (17)              in the present cases, the significance of \u916?PE and \u916?\u120591?\par
              VK\u120579?\u120574?m 1 \u8722? ln \u120579?\u120579?                                        can be correlated to the energy and stress relaxa-\par
                                                                     tion of the GB, respectively, during the absorption\par
                                   m\par
\par
\par
   For pure Ta, V = 10.85 \u215? 10\u8722?6 m3 mol\u8722?1 . Taking \u120591?cr ,             event. \u10216?112\u10217?\u8725?\{112\} showed a significant \u916?PE and \u916?\u120591?\par
Egb , and their corresponding \u120579? from MD simula-                      as in Fig. 5c, d. Figure 5e has similarities to that of\par
tion results, the mean value of \u120590?y was found to be                   N and s in Figs. 3c, f; for example, the variation of\par
206 MPa which corresponds to the yield strength                      values in \u10216?112\u10217?\u8725?\{110\} was lower than \u10216?112\u10217?\u8725?\{112\}\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Figure 6\u8194?\u8201?Pearson correlation plot between various features. The values of the features showing strong correlation (here, greater than\par
0.7) are shown as bold text\par
J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257                                                                                   253\par
\par
\par
\par
while \u10216?110\u10217?\u8725?\{110\} was higher than \u10216?110\u10217?\u8725?\{112\}. Dcr is      were optimized until RMSE between the XGBoost pre-\par
dependent on the extent of attraction of the disloca-      dicted and calculated yield stress during testing was\par
tion to the GB. Dcr increased with initial values of       as low as possible, here 37 MPa. RMSE during testing\par
rotation angles for LAGBs and then decreased for           was 37 MPa while RMSE during training was 12 MPa\par
higher values of rotation angles as in Figs. 5f, g.        ensuring that there was no overfitting. The optimized\par
                                                           values of XGBoost hyperparameters are shown in\par
Feature analysis using SHAP                                Table 1. The cross-validation of the optimized model\par
                                                           was carried out with 5 splits and their RMSEs were\par
Using the Pearson correlation plot in Fig. 6, only the     112, 109, 125, 49, and 63 MPa. The average RMSE\par
least correlated features were used as inputs while        across data was 92 MPa with a standard deviation of\par
other features with correlation coefficient greater than   29 MPa.\par
0.7 such as N , LRB, \u955?, and RSS were not used. The out-       The ML predicted values matched reasonably well\par
liers belonging to \u10216?112\u10217?\u8725?15\u9702? \u8725?\{110\}, \u10216?112\u10217?\u8725?88\u9702? \u8725?\{110\},     with the MD calculated values of the yield stress\par
and \u10216?112\u10217?\u8725?63\u9702? \u8725?\{112\} were removed due to the higher        (Fig. 7a). The sorted feature with decreasing mean\par
shear stress values.                                       SHAP values in Fig. 7b is a quantitative dependence\par
   The rotation axis and slip plane along with MD          on yield stress. The features Dcr , \u916?\u120591? and m\u8242? showed\par
parameters \u916?\u120591? , \u916?PE and Dcr ; and the STPs m\u8242? , RBV,       maximum correlation with yield stress. m\u8242? was found\par
and s were taken as input features. The yield stress       to contribute significantly to the yield stress as com-\par
calculated from Eq. (17) was the output target. The        pared to any other STP. The low/high feature value\par
other MD parameters such as \u120591?cr , Egb , and rotation       and its corresponding negative/positive SHAP value\par
angle were neglected as they were already correlated       represent direct proportionality between the feature\par
to the yield stress by Eq. (17).                           and the yield stress. Whereas a low/high feature value\par
   The XGBoost hyperparameters used in the current         and its corresponding positive/negative SHAP value\par
model were max depth, gamma, colsample bytree,             represents inverse proportionality between the feature\par
sub-sample, learning rate, max delta step, random          and the yield stress. For example, an increase in \u916?\u120591? , or\par
state, n estimators, alpha, and seed. To avoid local       a decrease in Dcr or m\u8242? corresponds to an increase the\par
optima, surrogate model with any two hyperparam-           yield stress which can be attributed to strengthening\par
eters were optimized using grid search and the other       of GBs. That is, if a GB configuration A has higher \u916?\u120591?\par
hyperparameters were fixed to their default or initial     or lower Dcr/m\u8242? than that of B GB configuration, then\par
seed values. The surrogate model was again used            A is stronger than B. When Dcr was less than 40 \u197?,\par
with another two hyperparameters being optimized           there was a stronger contribution toward increase\par
using grid search. This process was repeated using         of the yield stress as in Fig. 7c. So, the GB configura-\par
other hyperparameters to arrive at the final optimized     tions that resulted in Dcr being less than 40 \u197? were\par
XGBoost model. This method was used to save compu-         stronger than those with Dcr greater than 40 \u197?. There\par
tational time and cost. The XGBoost hyperparameters        were 44 GB configurations with Dcr less than 40 \u197?. The\par
                                                           complete data is available in the GitHub link. A high\par
                                                           value of \u916?\u120591? was due to the large relaxation (during\par
Table 1\u8194?\u8201?Optimized XGBoost hyperparameters                 dislocation absorption) of strained GB, which can be\par
XGBoost hyperparameters                        Values      attributed to the higher strength of the GB configura-\par
                                                           tion and hence an increase in yield stress. So, the GB\par
Max depth                                      3           configurations with the value of \u916?\u120591? between 15 and\par
Gamma                                          85          70 MPa and SHAP values less than zero were weaker\par
Colsample bytree                               0.191421    than that with SHAP values greater than zero as in\par
Subsample                                      0.284894    Fig. 7d. \{110\} slip plane had negative SHAP values\par
Learning rate                                  0.843006    indicating it would decrease the yield stress while\par
Max delta step                                 67\par
                                                           \{112\} would increase the yield stress (Fig. 7e). This\par
Random state                                   1\par
                                                           implied that the configurations with dislocation on\par
n estimators                                   99\par
                                                           \{110\} were weaker than that with dislocation on \{112\}\par
Alpha                                          6\par
                                                           slip plane. [111] rotation axis showed higher SHAP\par
Seed                                           19\par
                                                           values as in Fig. 7f. This implied that microstructures\par
254                                                                                              J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Figure 7\u8194?\u8201?a MD calculated and XGBoost predicted yield stress        critical distance and d drop in shear stress. The histogram shows\par
values for both the training and testing data. b SHAP violin plot   the distribution of number of data points. SHAP dependence plot\par
for all features. SHAP values are in the units of log-odds. The     of e slip plane and f rotation axis. The points in Figs. c\u8211?f were\par
maximum and minimum value of the feature is represented on          colored using values of m\u8242?\par
a color bar on the right side of b. SHAP dependence plot of c\par
\par
\par
with continuous grains of \u947? fiber will be difficult to              complex process and is determined by several factors.\par
deform due to their [111] rotation axis configurations.             The orientations and types of GBs studied in the pre-\par
                                                                    sent work are a small subset of the total possibilities.\par
                                                                    Even with these limitations, the results obtained from\par
Conclusions                                                         the study helped to an extent in solving the ambiguity\par
                                                                    of the slip transmission parameters and gave a path to\par
Dislocation\u8211?GB interaction plays a critical role in gov-            relate these parameters with the yield strength relat-\par
erning the plastic deformation of a material. Slip trans-           ing to deformation of GB. The results were also help-\par
mission across the GBs during plastic deformation is a              ful in distinguishing the effect of GB configurations\par
J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257                                                                                                   255\par
\par
\par
\par
with different rotation axes and slip planes on the           Acknowledgements\par
yield stress. The MD simulation results can be useful\par
in crystal plasticity simulations where dislocation\u8211?GB        This work was supported under the BARC project\par
interactions require atomistic inputs.                        RBA4012 \u8216?Development of new generation alloys for\par
   The main conclusions are listed below.                     nuclear reactor system and joining technologies for\par
                                                              ceramics, metals and special materials\u8217?.\par
1. Numerical calculations of STPs revealed that m\u8242? ,\par
   LRB, and RSS could not explain the slip transmis-\par
   sion through [111] twist GB configurations. RBV            Author contributions\par
   and LRB could not distinguish between dislocation\par
   slipping on \{110\} and \{112\} planes. N , LRB, \u955?, and        AK contributed to conceptualization, methodology,\par
   RSS were not considered for ML analysis as they            simulation, data collection, analysis, evaluation, and\par
   showed a strong correlation with other param-              writing of the original manuscript. RK contributed to\par
   eters.                                                     supervision, critical discussion, review, and editing of\par
2. The yield stress of the GB configurations were esti-       the manuscript. AS contributed to simulation, critical\par
   mated using GB properties such as GBE, rotation            discussion, review, and editing of the manuscript.\par
   angle, \u120591?cr , and their mean value was found to be\par
   206 MPa.\par
3. XGBoost and SHAP were used to explain the cor-             Declarations\par
   relation of various STPs and MD parameters with\par
   yield stress. The yield stress can be best quantified      Conflict of interest The authors declare that they\par
   using Dcr , \u916?\u120591? and m\u8242? . The configurations with Dcr        have no known competing financial interests or per-\par
   less than 40 \u197? and with higher \u916?\u120591? values were dif-         sonal relationships that could have appeared to influ-\par
   ficult to deform relative to other configurations.         ence the work reported in this paper.\par
   The SHAP results sorted the prominent slip plane\par
   and rotation axis affecting the yield stress. Disloca-     Ethical approval         Not applicable.\par
   tions on \{110\} slip plane could yield the GB rela-\par
   tively easy (negative SHAP value) as compared to           Supplementary Information The online version\par
   those on \{112\} (positive SHAP value). The yield            contains supplementary material available at https://\u8203?\par
   stress was highest for GB configurations with rota-        doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1007/\u8203?s10853-\u8203?023-\u8203?09167-y.\par
   tion axis [111], followed by [ 11 2] and [ 110].\par
\par
   Quantifying the dislocation transmission through a GB\par
via slip is essential in predicting the strength of materi-   References\par
als and has till now been done through slip transmission\par
parameters. Our work presents a novel methodology of          [ 1] Hansen N (2004) Hall-petch relation and boundary\par
integrating the slip transmission parameters and parame-           strengthening. Scr Mater 51:801\u8211?806. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?\par
ters from molecular dynamics simulations, using explain-           1016/j.\u8203?scrip\u8203?tamat.\u8203?2004.\u8203?06.\u8203?002\par
able machine learning to bring out the specific parameters    [ 2] Patriarca L, Abuzaid W, Sehitoglu H, Maier HJ (2013) Slip\par
that correlate well with the yield of the GB. The use of           transmission in bcc FeCr polycrystal. Mater Sci Eng A\par
machine learning toward solving this essential scientific          588:308\u8211?317. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?msea.\u8203?2013.\u8203?08.\u8203?050\par
problem opens a new avenue revolutionizing the slip           [ 3] Guo Y, Britton TB, Wilkinson AJ (2014) Slip band-grain\par
transmission theory.                                               boundary interactions in commercial-purity titanium. Acta\par
                                                                   Mater 76:1\u8211?12. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?actam\u8203?at.\u8203?2014.\u8203?05.\u8203?\par
                                                                   015\par
Data and code availability                                    [ 4] Bieler TR, Eisenlohr P, Zhang C, Phukan HJ, Crimp MA\par
                                                                   (2014) Grain boundaries and interfaces in slip transfer.\par
The data that support the findings of this study are               Curr Opin Solid State Mater Sci 18:212\u8211?226. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?\par
openly available in Github, at https://\u8203?github.\u8203?com/\u8203?              org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?cossms.\u8203?2014.\u8203?05.\u8203?003\par
kedha\u8203?r1992/\u8203?dislo\u8203?cation-\u8203?GB.\par
256                                                                                                      J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257\par
\par
\par
[ 5] Weaver JS, Li N, Mara NA, Jones DR, Cho H, Bronkhorst               [16] Hansen LT, Fullwood DT, Homer ER, Wagoner RH, Lim H,\par
     CA, Fensin SJ, Gray GT (2018) Slip transmission of high                  Carroll JD, Zhou G, Bong HJ (2020) An investigation of geo-\par
     angle grain boundaries in body-centered cubic metals:                    metrically necessary dislocations and back stress in large grained\par
     micropillar compression of pure Ta single and bi-crystals.               tantalum via EBSD and CPFEM. Mater Sci Eng, A 772:138704.\par
     Acta Mater 156:356\u8211?368. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?actam\u8203?            https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?msea.\u8203?2019.\u8203?138704\par
     at.\u8203?2018.\u8203?06.\u8203?046                                                   [17] Bayerschen E, McBride AT, Reddy BD, B\u246?hlke T (2016)\par
[ 6] Kondo S, Mitsuma T, Shibata N, Ikuhara Y (2016) Direct                   Review on slip transmission criteria in experiments and\par
     observation of individual dislocation interaction processes              crystal plasticity models. J Mater Sci 51:2243\u8211?2258.\par
     with grain boundaries, Science. Advances 2:1\u8211?8. https://\u8203?                https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1007/\u8203?s10853-\u8203?015-\u8203?9553-4\par
     doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1126/\u8203?sciadv.\u8203?15019\u8203?26                                [18] Ren Y, Huang Z, Wang Y, Zhou Q, Yang T, Li Q, Jia Q, Wang H\par
[ 7] Shen Z, Wagoner RH, Clark WAT (1988) Dislocation                         (2023) Friction-induced rapid amorphization in a wear-resistant\par
     and grain boundary interactions in metals. Acta Metall                   (CoCrNi)88Mo12 dual-phase medium-entropy alloy at cryo-\par
     36:3231\u8211?3242. https://\u8203?d oi.\u8203?o rg/\u8203?1 0.\u8203?1 016/\u8203?0 001-\u8203?6 160(88)\u8203?         genic temperature. Compos B Eng 263:110833. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?\par
     90058-2                                                                  10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?compo\u8203?sitesb.\u8203?2023.\u8203?110833\par
[ 8] De Koning M, Kurtz RJ, Bulatov VV, Henager CH,                      [19] Mortazavi B, Silani M, Podryabinkin EV, Rabczuk T,\par
     Hoagland RG, Cai W, Nomura M (2003) Modeling of                          Zhuang X, Shapeev AV (2021) First-principles multiscale\par
     dislocation-grain boundary interactions in FCC metals. J                 modeling of mechanical properties in graphene/borophene\par
     Nucl Mater 323:281\u8211?289. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?jnucm\u8203?            heterostructures empowered by machine-learning intera-\par
     at.\u8203?2003.\u8203?08.\u8203?008                                                        tomic potentials. Adv Mater. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1002/\u8203?adma.\u8203?\par
[ 9] Shimokawa T, Kinari T, Shintaku S (2007) Interaction                     20210\u8203?2807\par
     mechanism between edge dislocations and asymmetrical                [20] Zhou Q, Luo D, Hua D, Ye W, Li S, Zou Q, Chen Z,\par
     tilt grain boundaries investigated via quasicontinuum simu-              Wang H (2022) Design and characterization of metallic\par
     lations. Phys Rev B 75:1\u8211?11. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1103/\u8203?PhysR\u8203?         glass/graphene multilayer with excellent nanowear prop-\par
     evB.\u8203?75.\u8203?144108                                                          erties. Friction 10:1913\u8211?1926. https://\u8203?d oi.\u8203?o rg/\u8203?1 0.\u8203?1 007/\u8203?\par
[10] Yu W, Wang Z (2012) Interactions between edge lattice                    s40544-\u8203?021-\u8203?0581-6\par
     dislocations and \u931?11 symmetrical tilt grain boundaries              [21] Yang C, Yin C, Wu Y, Zhou Q, Liu X (2023) Atomic\par
     in copper: a quasi-continuum method study. Acta Mater                    insights into the deformation mechanism of an amorphous\par
     60:5010\u8211?5021. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?actam\u8203?at.\u8203?2012.\u8203?06.\u8203?        wrapped nanolamellar heterostructure and its effect on self-\par
     037                                                                      lubrication. J Market Res 26:4206\u8211?4218. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?\par
[11] Wang J (2015) Atomistic simulations of dislocation pileup:               1016/j.\u8203?jmrt.\u8203?2023.\u8203?08.\u8203?215\par
     grain boundaries interaction. Jom 67:1515\u8211?1525. https://\u8203?           [22] Talebi H, Silani M, Bordas SPA, Kerfriden P, Rabczuk T\par
     doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1007/\u8203?s11837-\u8203?015-\u8203?1454-0                                  (2014) A computational library for multiscale modeling of\par
[12] Liang Y, Yang X, Gong M, Liu G, Liu Q, Wang J (2019)                     material failure. Comput Mech 53:1047\u8211?1071. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?\par
     Interactions between dislocations and three-dimensional                  org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1007/\u8203?s00466-\u8203?013-\u8203?0948-2\par
     annealing twins in face centered cubic metals. Comput               [23] Spearot DE, Sangid MD (2014) Insights on slip transmis-\par
     Mater Sci 161:371\u8211?378. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?comma\u8203?             sion at grain boundaries from atomistic simulations. Curr\par
     tsci.\u8203?2019.\u8203?02.\u8203?024                                                      Opin Solid State Mater Sci 18:188\u8211?195. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?\par
[13] Chandra S, Samal MK, Chavan VM, Patel RJ (2015) Atom-                    1016/j.\u8203?cossms.\u8203?2014.\u8203?04.\u8203?001\par
     istic simulations of interaction of edge dislocation with           [24] Tsuru T, Shibutani Y, Hirouchi T (2016) A predictive\par
     twist grain boundaries in Al-effect of temperature and                   model for transferability of plastic deformation through\par
     boundary misorientation. Mater Sci Eng A 646:25\u8211?32.                      grain boundaries. AIP Adv. https://\u8203?d oi.\u8203?o rg/\u8203?1 0.\u8203?1 063/1.\u8203?\par
     https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?msea.\u8203?2015.\u8203?08.\u8203?049                       49398\u8203?19\par
[14] Kacher J, Eftink BP, Cui B, Robertson IM (2014) Disloca-            [25] Kapoor R, Verdhan N (2017) Interaction of dislocation\par
     tion interactions with grain boundaries. Curr Opin Solid                 pile-up with a low-angle tilt boundary: a discrete disloca-\par
     State Mater Sci 18:227\u8211?243. https://\u8203?d oi.\u8203?o rg/\u8203?1 0.\u8203?1 016/j.\u8203?          tion dynamics study. Philos Mag 97:465\u8211?488. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?\par
     cossms.\u8203?2014.\u8203?05.\u8203?004                                                    org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1080/\u8203?14786\u8203?435.\u8203?2016.\u8203?12661\u8203?02\par
[15] Kacher J, Robertson IM (2014) In situ and tomographic               [26] Kedharnath A, Kapoor R, Sarkar A (2021) Classical molecular\par
     analysis of dislocation/grain boundary interactions in tita-             dynamics simulations of the deformation of metals under uni-\par
     nium. Philos Mag 94:814\u8211?829. https://\u8203?d oi.\u8203?o rg/\u8203?1 0.\u8203?1 080/\u8203?           axial monotonic loading: a review. Comput Struct 254:106614.\par
     14786\u8203?435.\u8203?2013.\u8203?868942                                                  https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?comps\u8203?truc.\u8203?2021.\u8203?106614\par
J Mater Sci (2024) 59:243\u8211?257                                                                                                           257\par
\par
\par
[27] Chen T, Guestrin C (2016) XGBoost: A scalable tree boost-        [39] Stukowski A (2010) Visualization and analysis of atomistic\par
     ing system. In: Proceedings of the ACM SIGKDD interna-                simulation data with OVITO-the open visualization Tool.\par
     tional conference on knowledge discovery and data mining.             Modell Simul Mater Sci Eng 18:015012. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?\par
     ACM, New York, NY, USA, pp 785\u8211?794. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?               1088/\u8203?0965-\u8203?0393/\u8203?18/1/\u8203?015012\par
     10.\u8203?1145/\u8203?29396\u8203?72.\u8203?29397\u8203?85                                     [40] Samaniego E, Anitescu C, Goswami S, Nguyen-Thanh VM,\par
[28] Lundberg SM, Lee SI (2017) A unified approach to inter-               Guo H, Hamdia K, Zhuang X, Rabczuk T (2020) An energy\par
     preting model predictions. Adv Neural Inf Process Syst                approach to the solution of partial differential equations in\par
     30:4766\u8211?4775                                                          computational mechanics via machine learning: Concepts,\par
[29] Werner E, Prantl W (1990) Slip transfer across grain and              implementation and applications. Comput Methods Appl\par
     phase boundaries. Acta Metall Mater 38:533\u8211?537. https://\u8203?             Mech Eng 362:112790. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?cma.\u8203?2019.\u8203?\par
     doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/\u8203?0956-\u8203?7151(90)\u8203?90159-E                            112790\par
[30] Priester L, Boundaries G (1976). From Theory to Engineer-        [41] Baton J, Geslin W, Moussa C (2021) Influence of pre-\par
     ing. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1017/\u8203?cbo97\u8203?81316\u8203?389508.\u8203?016             recovery on the recrystallization of pure tantalum. J\par
[31] Mercier D, Zambaldi C, Bieler TR (2015) A Matlab tool-                Mater Sci 56:15354\u8211?15378. https:// \u8203? d oi. \u8203? o rg/ \u8203? 1 0. \u8203? 1 007/\u8203?\par
     box to analyze slip transfer through grain boundaries. IOP            s10853-\u8203?021-\u8203?06218-0\par
     Conf Ser Mater Sci Eng 82:11\u8211?15. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1088/\u8203?   [42] Kedharnath A, Kapoor R, Sarkar A (2023) Evolution of dis-\par
     1757-\u8203?899X/\u8203?82/1/\u8203?012090                                              locations and grain boundaries during multi-axial forging\par
[32] Mainprice D, Bachmann F, Hielscher R, Schaeben H (2015)               of tantalum. Int J Refract Metal Hard Mater 112:106120.\par
     Descriptive tools for the analysis of texture projects with           https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?ijrmhm.\u8203?2023.\u8203?106120\par
     large datasets using MTEX: strength, symmetry and com-           [43] Weinberger CR, Boyce BL, Battaile CC (2013) Slip planes\par
     ponents. Geol Soc Spec Pub 409:251\u8211?271. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?           in bcc transition metals. Int Mater Rev 58:296\u8211?314. https://\u8203?\par
     10.\u8203?1144/\u8203?SP409.8                                                     doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1179/\u8203?17432\u8203?80412Y.\u8203?00000\u8203?00015\par
[33] Kedharnath A, Kapoor R, Sarkar A (2019) Atomistic sim-           [44] Pande CS, Masumura RA, Armstrong RW (1993) Pile-up\par
     ulation of interaction of collision cascade with different            based hall-petch relation for nanoscale materials. Nano-\par
     types of grain boundaries in \u945?-Fe. J Nucl Mater 523:444\u8211?              struct Mater 2:323\u8211?331. https://\u8203?d oi.\u8203?o rg/\u8203?1 0.\u8203?1 016/\u8203?0 965-\u8203?\par
     457. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?jnucm\u8203?at.\u8203?2019.\u8203?06.\u8203?021           9773(93)\u8203?90159-9\par
[34] Kedharnath A, Panwar AS, Kapoor R (2017) Molecular               [45] John JL, Hirth P (1992) Theory of dislocations, 2nd edn.\par
     dynamics simulation of the interaction of a nano-scale crack          Krieger Publishing Company, Malabar. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?\par
     with grain boundaries in \u945?-Fe. Comput Mater Sci 137:85\u8211?               1016/\u8203?0502-\u8203?8205(49)\u8203?90004-0\par
     99. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?comma\u8203?tsci.\u8203?2017.\u8203?05.\u8203?026     [46] Fressengeas C, Beausir B, Kerisit C, Helbert AL, Baudin\par
[35] Hirel P (2015) Atomsk: a tool for manipulating and con-               T, Brisset F, Mathon MH, Besnard R, Bozzolo N (2018)\par
     verting atomic data files. Comput Phys Commun 197:212\u8211?                On the evaluation of dislocation densities in pure tantalum\par
     219. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?cpc.\u8203?2015.\u8203?07.\u8203?012                from EBSD orientation data. Mater Techn 10:6. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?\par
[36] W.R. Jian, S. Xu, I.J. Beyerlein, On the significance of              org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1051/\u8203?matte\u8203?ch/\u8203?20180\u8203?58\par
     model design in atomistic calculations of the Peierls stress\par
     in Nb, Computational Materials Science. 188 (2021).              Publisher\u8217?s Note Springer Nature remains neutral with\par
     https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1016/j.\u8203?comma\u8203?tsci.\u8203?2020.\u8203?110150.         regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and\par
[37] Chen Y, Fang J, Liu L, Hu W, Gao N, Gao F, Deng H                institutional affiliations.\par
     (2019) Development of the interatomic potentials for W-Ta\par
                                                                      Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner)\par
     system. Comput Mater Sci 163:91\u8211?99. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?org/\u8203?10.\u8203?\par
                                                                      holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing\par
     1016/j.\u8203?comma\u8203?tsci.\u8203?2019.\u8203?03.\u8203?021\par
                                                                      agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s);\par
[38] Plimpton S (1995) Fast parallel algorithms for short-range\par
                                                                      author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of\par
     molecular dynamics. J Comput Phys 117:1\u8211?19. https://\u8203?doi.\u8203?\par
                                                                      this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing\par
     org/\u8203?10.\u8203?1006/\u8203?jcph.\u8203?1995.\u8203?1039\par
                                                                      agreement and applicable law.\par

}