{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
                                               Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                       Contents lists available at ScienceDirect\par
\par
\par
                              Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids\par
                                                 journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jmps\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Dislocation-grain boundary interaction in metallic materials:\par
Competition between dislocation transmission and dislocation\par
source activation\par
Wenbin Liu a, Ying Liu a, Haonan Sui a, Lirong Chen a, Long Yu a, Xin Yi a,\par
Huiling Duan a,b,\u8727?\par
a\par
  State Key Laboratory for Turbulence and Complex System, Department of Mechanics and Engineering Science, BIC-ESAT, College of\par
Engineering, Peking University, Beijing 100871, P.R. China\par
b\par
  CAPT, HEDPS and IFSA, Collaborative Innovation Center of MoE, Peking University, Beijing 100871, P.R. China\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
a r t i c l e            i n f o                       a b s t r a c t\par
\par
Article history:                                       Dislocation transmission across grain boundary (GB) and activation of dislocation source\par
Received 30 June 2020                                  in adjacent grains are considered common features of dislocation-GB interactions in regu-\par
Revised 11 September 2020\par
                                                       lating mechanical properties and behaviors of metallic materials and structures. However,\par
Accepted 15 September 2020\par
                                                       it is currently unclear which of dislocation transmission and dislocation source activation\par
Available online 1 October 2020\par
                                                       plays the dominant role in regulating dislocation-GB interaction. To study the competition\par
Keywords:                                              between dislocation transmission and dislocation source activation, a theoretical frame-\par
Dislocation pile-up                                    work is established based on a dislocation pile-up model. It is found that both disloca-\par
Grain boundary                                         tion transmission and dislocation source activation exhibit strong dependence on the GB\par
Dislocation transmission                               misorientation angle. The critical transmission stress derived based on an energy method\par
Dislocation source activation                          also depends on the grain size in a scaling form similar to the Hall-Petch relation. The\par
Hall-Petch effect                                      outgoing slip systems during dislocation transmission are successfully predicted and agree\par
                                                       with experimental observations. Regarding the dislocation source activation, the critical ac-\par
                                                       tivation stress is investigated by examining the local stress \u64257?elds generated by single and\par
                                                       multiple slip dislocation pile-ups. It is found that compared with single slip dislocation\par
                                                       pile-up, the result of multiple slip dislocation pile-ups displays lower critical activation\par
                                                       stresses and exhibits feature of sensitivity to loading direction, interpreting the reported\par
                                                       results of dislocation source activation in polycrystals. Further comparison between dislo-\par
                                                       cation transmission and dislocation source activation for 100 tilt GBs indicates that the\par
                                                       dislocation transmission prevails at low angle GB, while dislocation source activation is\par
                                                       prone to occur at high angle GB. Our theoretical studies quantify the dislocation-GB inter-\par
                                                       action induced by dislocation pile-ups, shed light on the competition between dislocation\par
                                                       transmission and dislocation source activation, and might provide essential guidance for\par
                                                       high-performance metallic material design.\par
                                                                                                               \u169? 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
    \u8727?\par
        Corresponding author.\par
        E-mail address: hlduan@pku.edu.cn (H. Duan).\par
\par
\par
\par
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmps.2020.104158\par
0022-5096/\u169? 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                               Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
1. Introduction\par
\par
    Improving mechanical properties of crystalline metallic materials has been one of the eternal pursuits in materials sci-\par
ence. In recent years, plaini\u64257?cation has been proposed to provide crystalline metallic materials with high strength and ex-\par
cellent ductility without changing the chemical composition (Li and Lu, 2019). For example, nanocrystalline metals with\par
bimodal microstructures (Wang et al., 2002), nanotwinned materials (Lu et al., 2009) and gradient structure materials\par
(Lin et al., 2018) are three successful cases, in which excellent mechanical properties are achieved by controlling microstruc-\par
tures and spatial distribution of grain boundaries (GBs). From a microscopic perspective, the interaction between dislocations\par
and GBs, including dislocation transmission across GBs (Bieler et al., 2019; Guo et al., 2015; Lee et al., 1990) and activation\par
of dislocation sources in adjacent grains (Bayerschen et al., 2016; Cottrell, 1958; Gen\u233?e et al., 2017), shall play an important\par
role in affecting the mechanical behaviors and properties of crystalline metallic materials, which could further assist crack\par
initiation (Li et al., 2013; Shanthraj and Zikry, 2013; Zhang and Wang, 2003), crack propagation (Chen et al., 2017; Wilson\par
et al., 2018), and cavity nucleation (Lim, 1989; Yoo and Trinkaus, 1986).\par
    It is well known that the dislocation-GB interaction is regulated by the stress concentration arising from dislocation pile-\par
ups, whose formation is caused by GBs hindering the motion of dislocations (Ding et al., 2016; Gemperlov\u225? et al., 2002;\par
Hirth and Lothe, 1982; Hull et al., 2011), and has been theoretically analyzed. For example, Eshelby et al. (1951) established\par
a discrete dislocation model to analyze the dislocation distribution in a pile-up. However, a lack of analytical solutions from\par
that discrete model limits its applications in scienti\u64257?c and engineering studies. Later on, a continuum model has been pro-\par
posed (Hirth and Lothe, 1982; Leibfried, 1951), from which analytical solutions of the dislocation distribution and stress\par
concentration in the dislocation pile-up have been derived. These analytical solutions are further veri\u64257?ed by the dislocation\par
dynamics (DD) simulations (Quek et al., 2014). The dislocation-GB interaction is also closely related to the misorientation\par
between two adjacent grains (Shen et al., 1986; 1988). As an important mechanism of dislocation-GB interaction, the dis-\par
location transmission has been a continuous focus of interest for mechanical engineers and material scientists. Nowadays,\par
there are two mostly used empirical methods to qualitatively assess the role of microstructures in dislocation transmission.\par
One is the plastic compatibility factor developed by Luster and Morris (1995) taking into account the spatial information\par
of slip systems. The larger the plastic compatibility factor is, the easier the dislocation transmission could occur. The other\par
method is based on the LRB criteria established by Lee et al. (1989), that is, (1) the misorientation angle between the slip\par
planes should be minimized; (2) the resolved shear stress (RSS) on the outgoing slip system arising from the dislocation\par
pile-up should be maximized; (3) the magnitude of the Burgers vector of residual dislocation should be minimized. Al-\par
though both methods provide convenient and effective assessment of the likelihood of dislocation transmission (Bayerschen\par
et al., 2016; Han et al., 2018; H\u233?mery et al., 2018; Kacher et al., 2014), the related micro-mechanism was veiled because\par
only qualitative analysis can be performed. Currently, further explorations with molecular dynamics (MD) studies (Adlakha\par
and Solanki, 2016; Sangid et al., 2011; Tsuru et al., 2009) and DD simulations (Kapoor and Verdhan, 2017; Li et al., 2009; Liu\par
et al., 2012; Lu et al., 2019) provided physical insight into the dislocation transmission and revealed the role of GB interfa-\par
cial energy in regulating the dislocation transmission. Though the dislocation transmission has been extensively studied, it\par
remains challenging to quantitatively assess the dislocation transmission at various GB misorientation angles and clarify its\par
role in affecting the yield strength of crystalline metals.\par
    In addition to dislocation transmission across GBs, dislocation pile-ups could lead to the activation of dislocation sources\par
in adjacent grains to assist plastic deformation of polycrystals (Cottrell, 1958; Davis et al., 1966; H\u233?mery et al., 2018; Joseph\par
et al., 2018). Experiments have shown that the adjacent grains undergo serious plastic deformation even in the absence\par
of dislocation transmission (Gen\u233?e et al., 2017; Joseph et al., 2018), indicating that the dislocation sources are certainly\par
activated in adjacent grains. Due to the dislocation pile-up, the stress by superposition of Peach\u8211?Koehler forces can activate\par
the dislocation source in adjacent grains (Guo et al., 2014; Hirth and Lothe, 1982; Quek et al., 2014). The model proposed by\par
Livingston and Chalmers (1957) has been applied to calculate the projected stress on the outgoing slip system arising from\par
the dislocation pile-up in one slip system. However, that model is insu\u64259?cient to describe the behavior of dislocation source\par
activation (Davis et al., 1966), and the quantitative relation between critical activation stress and GB misorientation angles\par
is not established yet.\par
    In this study, a theoretical framework taking into account both dislocation transmission and dislocation source activation\par
is established to investigate the underlying physics of the dislocation-GB interaction. The critical stress of dislocation trans-\par
mission is formulated based on the energy release rate during the dislocation pile-up formation and the energy barrier for\par
dislocation transmission. Moreover, dislocation source activation for multiple slip systems is characterized by incorporating\par
the Frank-Read (FR) source model (Foreman, 1967). It is found that the activation of dislocation sources is sensitive to the\par
loading direction, consistent with recent experimental results (Gen\u233?e et al., 2017). Finally, the comparison of critical stresses\par
between the dislocation transmission and the dislocation source activation is performed at low angle GB (LAGB) and high\par
angle GB (HAGB). Our results help to improve the understanding of the dislocation pile-up based dislocation-GB interac-\par
tion and provide the corresponding quantitative descriptions to assist rational design of metallic materials with excellent\par
mechanical properties.\par
    The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, the dislocation pile-up is modelled and types of\par
dislocation-GB interaction are introduced. In Section 3, the residual dislocation tensor is introduced and the critical stress\par
of dislocation transmission is determined from an energy-based method. In Section 4, the activation of dislocation sources\par
in adjacent grains is studied under single and multiple slip dislocation pile-ups. Theoretical results are presented to de-\par
\par
                                                               2\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                                           Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                       Fig. 1. Schematic of dislocation pile-ups at GBs under applied stress.\par
\par
\par
\par
scribe the dislocation transmission and dislocation source activation, respectively, in Sections 5 and 6, which are followed\par
by conclusions in Section 7.\par
\par
2. Formation of dislocation pile-up and associated stress concentration\par
\par
2.1. Modeling dislocation pile-up formation\par
\par
    The dislocation motion is strongly affected by GBs, leading to the stress concentration associated with the formation of\par
dislocation pile-ups. In this study, a dislocation pile-up model with the concept of continuous dislocation distribution is\par
applied to analyze the dislocation distribution and associated stress \u64257?elds (Hirth and Lothe, 1982; Leibfried, 1951). In our\par
continuum model with the adopted Cartesian coordinate in Fig. 1, the equilibrium position of dislocations is described by\par
the equilibrium linear dislocation density n(x), which represents the number of dislocations per unit length. The dislocations\par
in the slip system are subjected to the external applied stress and the Peach-Koehler force from other dislocations, and the\par
following equilibrium equation is required\par
                       \u956?b2\par
                                          D/2\par
                                                 n ( x ) \par
                                                                               \par
                                                                             D D\par
                                                                                          \par
         \u964?eff b +                                        dx = 0,         x\u8712? \u8722? ,                                                                                   (2.1)\par
                    2\u960? ( 1 \u8722? v )          \u8722?D/2   x \u8722? x                      2 2\par
with \u964?eff = max (\u964? \u8722? \u964?0 , 0 ) as the effective stress associated with the dislocation motion, \u964? as the RSS, and \u964? 0 as the resis-\par
tance stress arising from the lattice friction, dislocation forest hardening and so on. In Eq. (2.1), \u956? is the shear modulus, v\par
is the Poisson ratio, b is the magnitude of Burgers vector, D is the grain size, and the linear dislocation density is de\u64257?ned as\par
n(x ) = (db/dx )/b.\par
    The analytical solution of the singular integral Eq. (2.1) can be obtained using Hilbert transforms and represented in\par
terms of Tschebyscheff polynomials (Akarapu and Hirth, 2013; Hirth and Lothe, 1982; Leibfried, 1951; Liu et al., 2014). Im-\par
plementing the condition that the dislocation source always produces the same number of positive and negative dislocations\par
                         D/2\par
         Ntotal =               n ( x )d x = 0 ,                                                                                                                 (2.2)\par
                         \u8722?D/2\par
\par
the solution of Eq. (2.1) is obtained as\par
                     2(1 \u8722? v )\u964?eff                 x\par
                                                                           \par
                                                                          D D\par
                                                                                      \par
         n (x ) =                                             ,      x\u8712? \u8722? ,  .                                                                                  (2.3)\par
                         \u956?b                   (D/2 )2 \u8722? x2                2 2\par
\par
    According to the Taylor-Orowan relation, the total shear strain is\par
                   D/2\par
                          bxn(x )             \u960? (1 \u8722? v )D\u964?eff\par
         \u949?=                       dx =                        .                                                                                                  (2.4)\par
                   \u8722?D/2     D                      4\u956?\par
   The total potential energy  per unit length (along the dislocation line) of the dislocation pile-up is a sum of the elastic\par
energy W due to the dislocation interaction and the potential energy V due to the external force, and can be expressed as\par
                                     \u949?\par
                                            d\u949?  \u8722? D\u964? \u949? = \u8722?           \u960? (1 \u8722? v )D2 \u964?eff 2\par
          = W +V = D                     \u964?eff                                             .                                                                     (2.5)\par
                                                                             8\u956?\par
                                                      eff\par
                                     0\par
\par
Consequently, the energy release rate in one end of the dislocation pile-up during the leading dislocation motion (i.e. dislo-\par
cation transmission) is\par
                    \u8706?  \u960? (1 \u8722? v )D\u964?eff 2\par
         G=\u8722?           =                  ,                                                                                                                      (2.6)\par
                    \u8706?D        4\u956?\par
which is suitable for energy-based analysis of dislocation transmission. Eq. (2.6) has a form similar to that of the energy\par
release rate at a shear crack tip (Anderson, 2005).\par
\par
                                                                                          3\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                              Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
         Fig. 2. Dislocation-GB interaction. (a) Schematics of the interaction mechanisms and (b) experimental demonstration (Gen\u233?e et al., 2017).\par
\par
\par
\par
   In addition, the shear stress \u964? xy (x, 0) in adjacent grains generated by dislocation pile-ups can be determined by the\par
superposition of shear stresses produced by each dislocation (Hirth and Lothe, 1982)\par
                                                                                     \par
                               D/2\par
                                          \u956?b       n ( x )               x\par
         \u964?xy (x, 0 ) =                                     dx = \u964?eff               \u8722?1 .                                                             (2.7)\par
                               \u8722?D/2   2\u960? ( 1 \u8722? v ) x \u8722? x              x2 \u8722? (D/2 )2\par
In the vicinity of the GB (x \u8722? D/2  D/2), the shear stress is estimated as\par
                                     \par
                              \u964?eff          D\par
         \u964?xy (x, 0 ) \u8764?\par
                     =                           .                                                                                                   (2.8)\par
                               2         x \u8722? D/2\par
The stress concentration near the GB (x \u8776? D/2) has a similar form to the stress \u64257?eld at the crack tip, which has been\par
identi\u64257?ed by experiments and simulations (Britton and Wilkinson, 2012; Gen\u233?e et al., 2017; Guo et al., 2014; Quek et al.,\par
2014). Both the energy release rate in Eq. (2.6) and stress \u64257?eld given by Eq. (2.7) regulate the dislocation-GB interaction.\par
\par
2.2. Dislocation-GB interaction\par
\par
   Experimental observations suggest that the underlying mechanism of dislocation-GB interaction consists of dislocation\par
transmission and dislocation source activation (Bayerschen et al., 2016), and three situations might exist as shown in Fig. 2.\par
As the dislocation transmits across the GB, the dislocation pile-up could be relaxed (Haouala et al., 2020), which means\par
that the stress concentration near the GB would not be further strengthened. Therefore, the occurrence of dislocation trans-\par
mission is unfavorable to the activation of dislocation source in adjacent grains. This deduction is consistent with statistical\par
experimental results that dislocation transmission mostly occurs at LAGB, and dislocation source activation is more likely\par
to occur at HAGB (Bayerschen et al., 2016; Gen\u233?e et al., 2017; H\u233?mery et al., 2018). In the following sections, we introduce\par
how to determine the critical stress required for the occurrence of these situations based on the dislocation pile-up model.\par
\par
3. Dislocation transmission and residual dislocations\par
\par
3.1. A criterion of dislocation transmission across GBs\par
\par
   In previous studies (Han et al., 2018; Li et al.,2009; Ma et al., 2006; Sangid et al., 2011), the dislocation transmission has\par
been investigated based on an energy method requiring a negative change of the total potential energy , that is,\par
          = Ebarrier \u8722? Erelease \u8804? 0,                                                                                                               (3.1)\par
where Ebarrier is the energy barrier for dislocation transmission and Erelease is the corresponding released energy of the\par
dislocation pile-up.\par
    According to Eq. (2.6), Erelease can be estimated as\par
                         D+b/p\par
                                                Gb     \u960? (1 \u8722? v )D\u964?eff 2 b\par
         Erelease =                   Gd D \u8776?      =                       ,                                                                         (3.2)\par
                          D                      p           4\u956? p\par
where G is the energy release rate in one end of the dislocation pile-up and b/p is assumed to be the required displacement\par
of the leading dislocation to transmit across the GB, which means that the displacement component perpendicular to the\par
\par
                                                                               4\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                               Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 3. Schematic diagram of edge dislocation transmission across the grain boundary. (a) Incoming and outgoing slip systems, (b) extra half-plane of atoms\par
for edge dislocations on incoming and outgoing slip systems.\par
\par
\par
\par
GB has a magnitude of Burgers vector. Here p is the dislocation-GB interaction coe\u64259?cient de\u64257?ned by\par
               |bA \u183? nGB |\par
         p=                = cos \u950? ,                                                                                                                 (3.3)\par
               |bA ||nGB |\par
where \u950? is the angle between the incoming slip direction bA and the unit normal vectors of GB plane nGB (see Fig. 3).\par
Erelease ~ \u964? eff 2 is inversely proportional to the value of p, which agrees that the critical stress of dislocation transmission\par
decreases with decreasing p (Verdhan and Kapoor, 2015). At p = 0 (the Burgers vector parallel to the GB plane), the GB does\par
not hinder the dislocation motion.\par
\par
3.2. Residual dislocation tensor\par
\par
    It has been proposed that the smaller the magnitude of the Burgers vector of residual dislocation | b| = |bA \u8722? bB | is\par
(subscripts A and B denote the grains A and B, respectively), the easier the dislocation transmission is (Abuzaid et al., 2012;\par
Gurtin, 2008; Han et al., 2018; Lee et al., 1989; 1990; Li et al., 2009; Sch\u228?fer et al., 2016). However, in some cases the\par
magnitude of b is insu\u64259?cient to assess the dislocation transmission behaviors. For example, Shen et al. (1986) found that\par
the angle between the line of intersection of slip planes in grains A and B and the GB plane should be as small as possible\par
for dislocation transmission, meaning that the misorientation of slip planes between grains A and B provides an energy\par
barrier for dislocation transmission (H\u233?mery et al., 2018). To establish the theoretical description of that energy barrier for\par
dislocation transmission, here the dislocation transmissions are categorized into three types as follows and illustrated in\par
Fig. 3.\par
\par
(1) At b = 0 and nA \u215? nB = 0, the leading dislocation can directly transfer to the adjacent grain with zero energy barrier\par
    (Ebarrier = 0).\par
(2) In the case of b = 0 or nA \u215? nB = 0, the dislocations on both sides of a GB are incompatible. Thus the GB would\par
    prohibit the dislocation transmission. The dislocation transmits across the GB in a manner of GB absorbing an incoming\par
    dislocation followed by emitting an outgoing dislocation (Han et al., 2018).\par
(3) At bA \u183? nGB = 0, the dislocations do not transmit across the GB, and Ebarrier = 0.\par
\par
    Here b and n represent the Burgers vector and the unit normal vectors of slip plane, respectively, and can be determined\par
by coordinate transformation matrices from crystal coordinate system to sample frames (see Appendix). The subscripts A, B\par
and GB refer to quantities pertaining to the grains A, B and GB, respectively. One can \u64257?nd that the dislocation transmission\par
is closely associated with spatial relations between the incoming slip system, outgoing slip system and GB plane, and these\par
relations play essential roles in quantitative studies of the critical stress of dislocation transmission.\par
    An edge dislocation is considered as an extra half-plane of atoms [Fig. 3(b)], which can further be characterized by the\par
normal directions of atomic plane (bA and bB ) and plane-in vectors (nA and nB ) (Hull et al., 2011). The difference between\par
dislocations on incoming and outgoing slip systems can also be characterized by these four vectors. A residual dislocation\par
tensor beff can be obtained to satisfy the conservation law of lattice defect during the dislocation transmission (symbol \par
denoting the tensor product) as\par
\par
           beff = bA  (T \u183? nA ) \u8722? bB  nB ,                                                                                                         (3.4)\par
where the transformation tensor T satisfying the relation T \u183? bA = bB with T is determined through Eq. (A.4) in Appendix.\par
The residual dislocation tensor completely describes the information of slip systems, including the slip direction and slip\par
plane. Notably, here bA (T \u183? nA ) is used to represent the incoming dislocation rather than bA nA , because nA and bA are\par
not independent (Fig. 4) during the coordinate transformation. The details on their differences are further discussed in Fig. 5.\par
\par
                                                                            5\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                                Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 4. Illustration of the conversion of dislocation between the incoming slip system and the outgoing slip system. (a)-(c) Convert incoming dislocation to\par
outgoing dislocation, (d) the included angle \u968? of T \u183? nA and nB .\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
               Fig. 5. The plastic compatibility factors m and m\u8727? under three types of misorientations between slip systems in grains A and B.\par
\par
\par
\par
    The magnitude of the residual dislocation tensor is de\u64257?ned as the Frobenius norm of                           beff , that is\par
                                   \par
           beff =        beff =        2b2   \u8722? 2(bA \u183? bB )(nB \u183? T \u183? nA ).                                                                             (3.5)\par
Here nB \u183? T \u183? nA represents the cosine of angle between nA and nB when bA coincides with bB after coordinate trans-\par
formation [Fig. 4 (b)]. Because nA and nB , respectively, are perpendicular to bA and bB , nB \u183? T \u183? nA can be expressed by\par
\par
         nB \u183? T \u183? nA = cos (\u968?A \u177? \u968?B ) = cos \u968? ,                                                                                                       (3.6)\par
where \u968? A and \u968? B , respectively, are angles between nA and nB with k, and k is the axis of the rotation perpendicular to\par
the plane composed by bA and bB . The addition or subtraction of ther these two angles depends on the directions of slip\par
systems [Eq. (3.7)]. The geometric parameters are determined as follows ( representing the angle between vectors)\par
         \u950? = bA , nGB ,                                                   \u950? \u8712? [0, \u960? /2],\par
         \u981? = b A , b B ,                                                  \u981? \u8712? [0, \u960? /2],                                                            (3.7)\par
         \u968? = |k, nA  \u8722? sgn[(nA \u215? k ) \u183? (nB \u215? k )]k, nB |,               \u968? \u8712? [0, \u960? /2],\par
and\par
                    bA \u215? bB\par
                                  , bA \u215? bB = 0,\par
         k=       |bA | \u183? |bB |                                                                                                                       (3.8)\par
                       nA ,         bA \u215? bB = 0.\par
   In comparison with residual Burgers vector b = bA \u8722? bB , the residual dislocation tensor beff takes into account both\par
the incompatibility of slip directions and slip planes between two grains. Considering the energy per unit length of disloca-\par
tion, the energy of residual dislocation Erd is given as (Hull et al., 2011)\par
         Erd = \u945?\u956? beff 2 = 2\u945?\u956?b2 (1 \u8722? cos \u981? cos \u968? ).                                                                                                  (3.9)\par
where \u945? is the material constant, and \u981? and \u968? are the geometric parameters of slip systems given in Eq. (3.7). Erd describes\par
the energy increase in the system during the dislocation transmission and the term cos \u981? cos \u968? has the form familiar to the\par
classical plastic compatibility factor proposed by Luster and Morris (1995). At bA \u183? bB = 0 or nA \u183? nB = 0 (i.e. cos \u981? cos \u968? = 0),\par
Erd reaches the maximum value 2\u945?\u956?b2 , meaning that the incoming dislocation is fully absorbed into the GB and a new\par
outgoing dislocation is emitted. At \u968? = 0 ( beff = | b|), Eq. (3.9) reduces to the model proposed by Li et al. (2009).\par
   To further explore the relation between the magnitude of residual dislocation beff and plastic compatibility factor\par
(Luster and Morris, 1995), Eq. (3.5) can be rewritten with the help of Eq. (3.6) as\par
                                                    \par
           beff = b 2 \u8722? 2 cos \u981? cos \u968? = b 2(1 \u8722? m ).                                                                                                 (3.10)\par
The factor m = cos \u981? cos \u968? has a form familiar to the phenomenological plastic compatibility factor m\u8727? = cos \u981? cos \u954? with\par
\u954? = nA , nB  introduced by Luster and Morris (1995). The larger m is, the better plastic compatibility two adjacent grains\par
\par
                                                                               6\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                                  Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
          Fig. 6. Schematic diagram of dislocation source activation of (a) single slip dislocation pile-up and (b) multiple slip dislocation pile-ups.\par
\par
\par
\par
have. Several cases of dislocation mismatch are depicted in Fig. 5 to compare these two factors. It is shown that there are no\par
differences between m and m\u8727? in types 1 and 2 (when the grain B rotates around bA or nA ) [Fig. 5(b)]. While the rotation\par
axis switches to the dislocation line (nA \u215? bA ) [Fig. 5(c)], m\u8727? = cos2 \u969? is different from m = cos \u969?. In fact, the magnitude\par
of residual Burgers vector in the type 3 is b 2(1 \u8722? cos \u969? ) (Li et al., 2009; Sangid et al., 2011; Wang et al., 2014), which is\par
equal to beff with m = cos \u969?. It indicates that the magnitude of residual dislocation tensor [Eq. (3.10)] successfully captures\par
the underlying physics of residual dislocation during dislocation transmission. Also, it is believed that the factor m proposed\par
in this study is more suitable to describe the plastic compatibility than m\u8727? .\par
\par
\par
3.3. Critical stress for dislocation transmission\par
\par
   In addition to the energy of residual dislocation Erd , GB energy EGB plays an important role in regulating the energy\par
barrier for dislocation transmission Ebarrier . DD simulations by Li et al. (2009) suggest that Ebarrier is related to EGB b + Erd ,\par
which describes energy required for the generation of residual dislocation within GBs. Meanwhile, MD simulations (Adlakha\par
and Solanki, 2016; Chandra et al., 2016; Sangid et al., 2011) show that the stability of GB structures is also important in\par
regulating Ebarrier . An unstable GB structure with high EGB exhibits a low Ebarrier for dislocation transmission, which obeys\par
an inverse power law relation\par
\par
                        \u8722?\u946?\par
         Ebarrier \u8733? EGB ,                                                                                                                                 (3.11)\par
\par
where \u946? is the model parameter associated with the materials (Chandra et al., 2016). This relation describes the relationship\par
between the stability of GB structure and the energy barrier for generating the residual dislocation within GBs. Based on\par
the results of these microscopic simulations (Li et al., 2009; Sangid et al., 2011), Ebarrier can be estimated by\par
\par
                       \u958? (EGB b + \u945?\u956? beff 2 )\par
         Ebarrier =                \u946?\par
                                                ,                                                                                                         (3.12)\par
                                  EGB\par
\par
where \u958? is the material parameter associated with the GB energy. With Eq. (3.12), it can be deduced that a stable GB\par
structure of low GB energy has a higher energy barrier for absorbing and emitting dislocation than the unstable GB structure\par
of high GB energy. Combining Eqs. (3.1), (3.2) and (3.12), the criterion for the dislocation transmission is obtained as\par
\par
         \u960? (1 \u8722? v )D\u964?eff 2 b \u958? (EGB b + \u945?\u956? beff 2 )\par
                            \u8722?                       \u8805? 0.                                                                                                  (3.13)\par
             4\u956? cos \u950?                  E\par
                                         \u946?\par
                                              GB\par
\par
   When Erelease of the dislocation pile-up is equal to Ebarrier of dislocation transmission, the critical resolved shear stress\par
(CRSS) \u964? ct acting on incoming slip system for the dislocation transmission can be determined by\par
\par
                             4\u956?\u958? [EGB b + 2\u945?\u956?b2 (1 \u8722? cos \u981? cos \u968? )] cos \u950?\par
         \u964?ct = \u964?0 +                                      \u946?\par
                                                                                   .                                                                      (3.14)\par
                                            \u960? b(1 \u8722? v )DEGB\par
\par
   The critical stress of dislocation transmission \u964? ct in Eq. (3.14) is determined based on energy analysis of dislocation\par
transmission, and incorporates the misorientation of slip systems, GB energy EGB and grain size D.\par
\par
\par
4. Activation of dislocation source in adjacent grains\par
\par
   In addition to the dislocation transmission, dislocation pile-ups can cause the activation of the dislocation source in\par
adjacent grains, which assists the formation of plastic zone and cracks in the region near the GB (Gen\u233?e et al., 2017). In this\par
section, we investigate the activation of dislocation source in the cases of single or multiple slip dislocation pile-ups.\par
\par
                                                                               7\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                                    Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
4.1. Stress \u64257?elds on outgoing slip system\par
\par
   As illustrated in Fig. 6, FR source locates in adjacent grains at a distance xs = x \u8722? D/2 away from the GB. According to\par
Eq. (2.7), the shear stress arising from dislocation pile-ups in the position of FR source can be rewritten as\par
                                 \u9121?                               \u9124?\par
                                        xis + D/2\par
         \u964?Ai (xs , 0 ) = \u964?eff \u9123?                           \u8722? 1\u9126?,                                                                                         (4.1)\par
                                           xis + D xis\par
\par
where xis = xs /p (the superscript i corresponds the incoming slip system) and p is the dislocation-GB interaction coe\u64259?cient\par
de\u64257?ned in Eq. (3.3). At p = 0 (bA \u183? nGB = 0), we have \u964?Ai = 0 as the GB does not hinder the dislocation motion.\par
    Eq. (4.1) gives the shear stress at the coordinate system of incoming slip system in grain A, and the resolved shear stress\par
\u964?Bj on the outgoing slip system j in grain B is determined by Livingston and Chalmers (1957)\par
         \u964?Bj = [(sA \u183? sB )(nA \u183? nB ) + (nB \u183? sA )(sB \u183? nA )]\u964?Ai ,                                                                                         (4.2)\par
in which sA = bA /b and sB = bB /b are the unit vectors of the slip directions of incoming and outgoing slip systems, respec-\par
tively.\par
    It should be noted that that Eq. (4.2) only considers the case of single slip dislocation pile-up and other slip systems\par
are ignored, which is not consistent with the actual physical processes. In fact, the calculation of stress states on FR source\par
should take into account the contribution of all activated slip systems [Fig. 6(b)], such as the face-centered cubic (FCC)\par
materials with 12 slip systems and the body-centered cubic (BCC) materials with 24 slip systems (Hull et al., 2011) Here a\par
more realistic model is proposed that the stress acting on the FR source is obtained by the superposition of the stress \u64257?elds\par
of all activated slip systems\par
                   \par
                   N                      \par
         \u964?B\u946?B =               \u964?A\u945?A M\u946?\u945?BA                                                                                                                  (4.3)\par
                  \u945?A =1\par
                                                             \u945?\par
with the transformation coe\u64259?cient M\u946?A (e.g. 144 components for FCC materials)\par
                                    B\par
\par
         M\u946?\u945?A = (s\u945?A \u183? s\u946?B )(n\u945?A \u183? n\u946?B ) + (n\u946?B \u183? s\u945?A )(s\u946?B \u183? n\u945?A ).                                                                                      (4.4)\par
            B\par
\par
                                                                                                                                                          \u945?\par
Here N is the number of slip systems, and \u945? A and \u946? B represent the slip systems in grains A and B, respectively. \u964?A A is\par
the stress produced by the dislocation pile-up at the coordinate system of incoming slip system \u945? A , and is determined by\par
Eq. (4.1) as\par
                       \u9121?                                     \u9124?\par
                 \u945?A \u9123?            x\u945?s A + D/2\par
         \u964?A\u945?A = \u964?eff                                  \u8722? 1\u9126?,                                                                                             (4.5)\par
                                   \u945?A              \u945?A\par
                                  xs + D xs\par
            \u945?\par
where \u964?effA = max(|\u963? :R\u945?A | \u8722? \u964?0 , 0 )/sgn(\u963? :R\u945?A ) is the effective stress on the slip system \u945? A , in which \u963? is the Cauchy stress\par
                                                                                                     \par
tensor and R\u945?A is the Schmid tensor de\u64257?ned by R\u945?A = s\u945?A  n\u945?A + n\u945?A  s\u945?A /2.\par
    Substituting Eq. (4.5) into Eq. (4.3), the shear stress at the location of FR sources under multiple slip dislocation pile-ups\par
is obtained as\par
                          \u9121?                                                           \u9124?\par
                   \par
                   N                       x\u945?s A + D/2 \u8722?              x\u945?s A + D x\u945?s A\par
           \u946?B\par
         \u964?B =             \u9123?\u964?eff\par
                            \u945?A \u945?A\par
                                M\u946?                                                      \u9126?.                                                                (4.6)\par
                                                                    \par
                                                            x\u945?s A + D x\u945?s A\par
                                   B\par
                  \u945?A =1\par
\par
In the derivation of Eq. (4.6), we adopt the hypothesis proposed by Davis et al. (1966) that the stress acting on the dislo-\par
cation source is little affected by the parallel slip systems. Hence, the in\u64258?uence of the parallel slip system could be ignored\par
                                       \u946?\par
without losing the effectiveness of \u964?B B given in Eq. (4.6).\par
\par
4.2. Critical stress for activating Frank-Read sources\par
\par
   Under certain shear stress, the FR dislocation source in metallic materials can continuously emit dislocations by bowing\par
out dislocation segments to form a dislocation loop (Zhu et al., 2014). Once the FR source is activated, it continuously emits\par
a series of dislocations. According to the bowing-dislocation model proposed by Foreman (1967), the critical activation stress\par
of FR source can be expressed as\par
                      \u956?b     ls\par
         \u964?FR = C0          ln ,                                                                                                                           (4.7)\par
                     2\u960? ls   r0\par
where \u964? FR is the local stress required for activating FR sources, C0 is the coe\u64259?cient related to the character of dislocation\par
segments and Poisson ratio v (C0 = 1 for edge dislocation and v \u8776? 1/3), ls is the length of dislocation segment in stress-free\par
state, and r0 is the radius of the dislocation core.\par
\par
                                                                                             8\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                                                      Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
                Table 1\par
                Predictions of outgoing slip systems for dislocation-GB interactions.\par
\par
                   N      Rotation axis/angle           [110]/70.5o             [110]/70.5o             [1\u772?11\u772?]/60o               [121]/180o              [101]/-40o\par
                                                                            a                       a                        a                       a\par
                                Slip system             beff /b       Exp       beff /b       Exp        beff /b       Exp       beff /b       Exp       beff /b   Expb\par
\par
                   1     [11\u772?0](111 )                  1.07            -        0.66           A         1.15           -        1.11           -        1.22          -\par
                    2    [101\u772?](111 )                  1.00            -        1.11           I         1.11           -        0.67          I/A       1.06          -\par
                    3    [011\u772?](111 )                  1.41            -        1.15           -         0.66           A        1.11           -        1.33          -\par
                    4    [110](1\u772?11 )                  1.00            -        1.07           -         1.41           -        1.00           -        1.41          -\par
                    5    [101](1\u772?11 )                  1.07            -        0.97           B         1.07           -        1.41           -        1.00          -\par
                    6    [011\u772?](1\u772?11 )                 1.41            -        1.33           -         0.97           -        1.07           -        1.06          -\par
                    7    [110](11\u772?1 )                  1.29            -        1.11           -         1.41           -        1.29           -        1.41          -\par
                   8     [101\u772?](11\u772?1 )                 1.29            -        1.29           -         1.29           -        1.15           -         0.6          A\par
                   9     [011](11\u772?1 )                  1.16            -        1.41           -         1.11           -        1.29           -        0.68          I\par
                   10    [11\u772?0](111\u772? )                 1.11            -        0.97           -         1.33           -        1.07           -        1.34          -\par
                   11    [101](111\u772? )                  1.11            I        1.07           -         0.97           I        1.41           -        1.28          -\par
                   12    [011](111\u772? )                  0.67            A        1.41           -         1.07           -        1.00           -         1.4          -\par
                         Normal of GB                       (1\u772?11 )                 (1\u772?11 )                  (1\u772?11 )                 (11\u772?1 )                 (11\u772?1 )\par
                I, A and B represent the incoming slip system, outgoing primary and secondary slip systems, respectively. Superscripts a and\par
                b represent the experimental results adopted from Lee et al. (1989) and Cui et al. (2014), respectively.\par
\par
\par
\par
   When the local stress in the position of FR source reaches \u964? FR , the dislocation source can be activated. Combining\par
Eqs. (4.1), (4.2) and (4.7), the critical shear stress \u964? cs for the single slip system can be written as\par
                                                 \par
                                        xis + D xis\par
                                                                                                         \u8722?1 \u956?b     ls\par
         \u964?cs = \u964?0 +                                     i [(sA \u183? sB )(nA \u183? nB ) + (nB \u183? sA )(sB \u183? nA )] 2\u960? ls ln r0 .                                                     (4.8)\par
                         xis + D/2 \u8722?              xis + D xs\par
\par
  For multiple slip systems, the critical applied stress \u963? cs for activation of FR source on the slip system \u946? B can be deter-\par
mined by combining Eqs. (4.6) and (4.7) as\par
               \u9121?                                                   \u945?A                                     \u9124?\par
                max (|\u963? : R\u945?A | \u8722? \u964?0 , 0 )        x\u945?s A + D/2 \u8722?   xs + D x\u945?s A\par
                                                                                \u9126? \u8722? \u956?b ln ls = 0.\par
         N\par
               \u9123?                            \u183? M\u946?\u945?A                                                                                                                          (4.9)\par
                     sgn(\u963? : R\u945?A )               B            \u945?A    \u945?A            2\u960? ls r0\par
         \u945?A =1                                                xs + D xs\par
\par
Note that Eq. (4.9) gives \u963? cs for activating FR source in grain B. To facilitate analysis, the critical activation stress is de\u64257?ned\par
as the minimum of all critical applied stresses. In addition, in Eqs. (4.8) and (4.9), the RSS of external applied stress on\par
grain B has been ignored because it is relatively small compared with the stress concentration ahead of the dislocation\par
pile-up (Pan et al., 2015). As the stress caused by dislocation pile-ups increases, the activation of FR sources becomes easier,\par
consistent with the stress criterion proposed by Shen et al. (1986).\par
\par
5. Numerical results of dislocation transmission\par
\par
    The developed theoretical model is employed to study the dislocation transmission behaviors. Firstly, the outgoing slip\par
systems are predicted and compared with experimental results of stainless steels (in Section 5.1) (Cui et al., 2014; Lee et al.,\par
1989). Secondly, the effect of GB misorientation angle \u952? on critical transmission stress \u964? ct is discussed in Section 5.2. Finally,\par
\u964? ct displays a dependence on grain size D in Section 5.3.\par
\par
5.1. Predictions of outgoing slip systems\par
\par
    Taking FCC materials as an example, the critical transmission stress \u964? ct [Eq. (3.14)] of the preferential outgoing slip system\par
corresponds to the smallest \u964? ct among the 12 slip systems. Then it can also be inferred that the secondary outgoing slip\par
system has the second smallest \u964? ct . Accordingly, activation behaviors of outgoing slip systems can be predicted by comparing\par
the corresponding \u964? ct .\par
    Theoretical predictions [Eq. (3.14)] are compared with the experimental data of 310 stainless steel (Lee et al., 1989) and\par
304 stainless steel (Cui et al., 2014). According to Eqs. (3.12) and (3.14), the critical transmission stress \u964? ct for a \u64257?xed GB is\par
only associated with the magnitude of residual dislocation tensor beff . Thus the factor beff /b can be used to evaluate the\par
activation behaviors of outgoing slip systems, i.e. the smaller the factor beff /b is, the easier the dislocation transmission\par
becomes.\par
    Experimental results and theoretical predictions of \u64257?ve groups of dislocation transmissions are presented in Table 1. It\par
can be seen that the slip system with the smallest value of beff /b is activated preferentially. Moreover, in the second group\par
experimental data, the activation of the secondary outgoing slip system has the second smallest beff /b, which veri\u64257?es the\par
validity of our model. Meanwhile, in the \u64257?fth group of the experimental data, Cui et al. (2014) found that the outgoing slip\par
\par
                                                                                               9\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                                    Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                   Fig. 7. Schematic of a bi-crystal that GBs on both sides are assumed to be impenetrable.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                Fig. 8. Variations of \u964? ct and   beff /b with \u952? for slip system [11\u772?0](111 ). Subscripts A and B represent the corresponding grains.\par
\par
\par
\par
system [011](111\u772? ) with high beff /b is activated. It seems to be contradicting with our conclusions. However, the signi\u64257?cant\par
stress concentration induced by dislocation pile-up was observed on this slip system (Cui et al., 2014), which means the\par
possible activations of dislocation source.\par
    In most previous studies, the outgoing slip system was predicted by LRB criteria (Lee et al., 1989; 1990), in which three\par
factors, that is, residual dislocation, resolved shear stress and interaction angle are involved. In comparison with LRB criteria,\par
using beff /b as proposed here is more convenient as it is quite di\u64259?cult to identify which of these three factors in LRB\par
criteria dominates the dislocation transmission.\par
\par
5.2. Critical stress of dislocation transmission\par
\par
   Quantitative investigation on the dislocation transmission with various misorientations angles \u952? is achievable according\par
to Eq. (3.14). As depicted in Fig. 7, bi-crystal aluminum (Al) with the 100 tilt GBs in the range of 0o to 90o are selected to\par
investigate the critical stress of dislocation transmission, and material parameters are listed in Table 2.\par
   Based on the experimental data (Hasson and Goux, 1971), the energies of 100 tilt GB have a statistical expression\par
                     k\u952? /\u952?1 ,                          \u952? \u8712? [0o , \u952?1 ],\par
         EGB =       k,                                \u952? \u8712? (\u952?1 , \u952?2 ),                                                                                    (5.1)\par
                     k(90o \u8722? \u952? )/(90o \u8722? \u952?2 ),          \u952? \u8712? [\u952?2 , 90o ].\par
The HAGB energy k is taken approximately as 600 mJ/m2 for Al (Hasson and Goux, 1971), and the parameters \u952? 1 and \u952? 2 are\par
adopted as 20o and 70o , respectively.\par
\par
5.2.1. Dislocation transmission for single slip system\par
    Dislocation transmission for single slip system [11\u772?0](111 ) is investigated, and the normal direction of the GB plane is set\par
as nGB =(010). Fig. 8 displays the variation of the critical transmission stress \u964? ct and beff /b with the misorientation angle \u952? .\par
    At \u952? = 0o , we have \u964?ct = \u964?0 as beff /b = 0. As \u952? increases, \u964? ct increases due to the increased beff meaning that HAGBs\par
provide the high resistance for dislocation transmission. With a further increase of \u952? , \u964? ct increases rapidly. One reason is\par
the decreased GB energy after \u952? > 70o . Another reason is that the outgoing slip system here is \u64257?xed. In fact, in the case of\par
multiple slip systems, while \u964? ct of one outgoing slip systems is very high, the outgoing slip systems can switch to another\par
one with low beff . This result indicates that the dislocation transmission behavior is strongly affected by both beff /b and\par
EGB . A high energy barrier of dislocation transmission can be provided by the low energy GB, whose interfacial energy is\par
affected by misorientation angle, GB plane normal and free volume (Olmsted et al., 2009). Combined with our results, one\par
can conclude that for the HAGB with low GB energy such as  3 coherent GB, EGB would be the main factor affecting the\par
\par
                                                                                 10\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                                    Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                          Fig. 9. Dislocation linear density n(x) as a function of the dislocation position x and misorientation angle \u952? .\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
dislocation transmission (Sangid et al., 2011). Whereas for the general HAGBs, the GB misorientation angle usually plays the\par
dominant role in affecting dislocation transmission, as presented in Fig. 8.\par
    Combining Eqs. (2.3) and (3.14), the dislocation linear density n(x) for dislocation transmission with various \u952? is shown\par
in Fig. 9. Here, we only discuss the case at \u952? < 45o as the tilt GBs is symmetric about \u952? = 45o . As shown in Fig. 9, n(x)\par
in the vicinity of x \u8776? 0 is close to 0 m\u8722?1 . Due to the dislocation pile-up formation, n(x) increases as x increases until a\par
maximum value is reached in the vicinity of the GB. n(x) increases with increasing \u952? . At \u952? \u8776? 45o , the dislocation density is\par
approximately 1.8 \u215? 107 m\u8722?1 at x \u8776? 250 nm, comparable to the experimental result 2.4 \u215? 107 m\u8722?1 (x \u8776? 250 nm) measured\par
by Shen et al. (1986). As \u952? decreases, the energy barrier for dislocation transmission is reduced, and the dislocation pile-up\par
relaxes.\par
\par
\par
\par
5.2.2. Dislocation transmission for multiple slip systems\par
    The dislocation transmission in multiple slip systems is investigated here. For FCC Al, there are 144 components of dis-\par
location transmissions for 12 incoming and outgoing slip systems. For simplicity without losing generality, here we only\par
consider uniaxial loading. According to Eq. (3.14), the external applied stress of dislocation transmission \u963? ct under uniaxial\par
loading can be written as\par
                               \u9121?                         \u9124?\par
                                                    \par
                             4\u956?\u958? E b + \u945?\u956? b\u945?A ,\u946?B 2 cos \u950?\par
                        \u9122?         GB                      \u9125?\par
                        \u9122?\u964?  \par
                                                  eff\par
                                                           \u9125?\par
         \u963?ct = min \u9122? \u945?0A +                      \u946?          \u9125?,                                                                                             (5.2)\par
              \u946?B = 1, 12\u9123? R        \u960? b(1 \u8722? v )DEGB (R\u945?A )2 \u9126?\par
              \u945?A = 1, 12\par
\par
                                                                             \u945? ,\u946?\par
where R\u945?A is the Schmid factor of the slip system \u945? A , beffA B is the magnitude of the residual dislocation tensor for dis-\par
location transmission from \u945? A into \u946? B slip systems. As discussed in Section 3.1, when the slip direction is parallel to the\par
GB plane ( p = 0), the dislocation transmission across the GB does not occur (\u963?ct = 0). Therefore, nGB is set as (012) to avoid\par
the situation of p = 0. It is noted that this GB is an asymmetric tilt GB. Here we still adopt Eq. (5.1) to describe the GB\par
energy because there is no signi\u64257?cant difference in GB energy between 100 symmetric tilt GB and 100 asymmetric tilt\par
GB (Tschopp and McDowell, 2007).\par
    Fig. 10 shows \u963? ct as a function of \u952? under loading directions along [010], [111] and [012] (see Table 2 for model param-\par
eters). It is shown that \u963? ct of LAGB is smaller than that of HAGB, consistent with experimental results (Bieler et al., 2019;\par
H\u233?mery et al., 2018; Joseph et al., 2018). In addition, the pro\u64257?le \u963? ct (\u952? ) exhibits the symmetry with respect to \u952? = 45o due\par
to the symmetry of tilt GB. At the stage of \u952? < 45o , the evolutions of \u963? ct have the same trend as a result of single slip in\par
Fig. 8(a). Contrary to the rapid increase of \u963? ct at \u952? > 45o in Fig. 8(a), \u963? ct decreases with increasing \u952? . This is mainly due\par
to the switching of the incoming and outgoing slip system to ones corresponding to the lowest \u963? ct or beff /b.\par
    According to previous studies (Ding et al., 2016; Guo et al., 2014; H\u233?mery et al., 2018; Joseph et al., 2018), there is no\par
essential difference in the physical mechanism of GB-dislocation interaction between HCP and other crystalline materials.\par
Thus, the developed model can be generalized to study the dislocation transmission behavior of the hexagonal-close-packed\par
(HCP) crystalline materials by taking into account the anisotropy of the slip systems. For HCP materials, the operation of slip\par
systems is associated with the grain size and strain rate (Li et al., 2018)\par
\par
                                                                                11\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                                 Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                Fig. 10. Variation of \u963? ct with \u952? under loading of different directions [111], [012] and [010].\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
          Fig. 11. Variations of \u964? ct with D for \u952? of 5o , 15o , 25o and 35o . The result of DD simulation is adopted from Kapoor and Verdhan (2017).\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
5.3. Hall-Petch effect at different misorientation angles\par
\par
   It is well known that the yield stress of polycrystalline materials displays the Hall-Petch effect (Hall, 1951; Li et al., 2009;\par
Petch, 1953), i.e. the yield stress \u963? y increases with decreasing grain size D (\u963?y \u8733? D\u8722?0.5 ). In this study, such an effect can be\par
further interpreted by the decreasing energy release rate with decreasing D [Eq. (2.6)]. According to Eq. (3.14), the evolution\par
of \u964? ct ~ D at different \u952? is investigated. Here the incoming slip system is \u64257?xed as [11\u772?0](111 ), and nGB is set as (11\u772?0 ).\par
   \u964? ct at \u952? = 5o , 15o , 25o and 35o display the Hall-Petch effect (Fig. 11). As \u952? decreases, the Hall-Petch effect becomes\par
weaker, consistent with the simulation results by Li et al. (2009) that the Hall-Petch effect with HAGB is more apparent\par
than that with LAGB. As shown in the inset of Fig. 11, our theoretical model shows good agreement with DD simulations\par
(Kapoor and Verdhan, 2017). The LAGB investigated by DD simulations is composed of a series of edge dislocations with\par
spacing of S = 80b (Kapoor and Verdhan, 2017), and its misorientation angle can thus be approximated as \u952? = b/S \u8776? 0.72o\par
(Hirth and Lothe, 1982). As the dislocation motion resistance \u964? 0 was not considered in DD simulations, \u964?0 = 0 MPa is taken\par
in our theoretical analysis.\par
\par
\par
\par
6. Numerical results of dislocation source activation\par
\par
    The dislocation pile-up induced dislocation source activations in adjacent grains is investigated in this section. Using\par
Eq. (2.7), the shear stress \u64257?eld \u964? xy /\u964? eff ahead of the dislocation pile-up is plotted in Fig. 12 as a function of xGB = x \u8722? D/2.\par
The stress concentration exists in the region near the GB and gradually vanishes as xGB increases, veri\u64257?ed by experiments\par
(Britton and Wilkinson, 2012; Guo et al., 2014). Under the stress concentration, dislocation sources with activation stress\par
less than local stress can be activated (Cottrell, 1958; Joseph et al., 2018). Here the bi-crystal Al (see Fig. 7) is taken as an\par
example for investigation, and tilt GBs with \u952? from 0o to 90o are considered. According to the experimental observations\par
(Gen\u233?e et al., 2017; Joseph et al., 2018), the distance from the dislocation nucleation site or the core of plastic zone to GBs\par
falls in a range from around several hundred nanometers to several micrometers, and the average grain size ranges from\par
around 4 \u956?m to 350 \u956?m. Therefore, we adopt the source distance of 1 \u956?m for a grain size of 10 \u956?m, as listed in Table 2.\par
\par
                                                                              12\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                                    Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
               Fig. 12. Normalized shear stress \u964? xy /\u964? eff ahead of a dislocation pile-up as a function of the distance xGB = x \u8722? D/2 from the GB.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                               Fig. 13. Variation of \u964? cs with \u952? of single slip dislocation pile-up.\par
\par
\par
\par
6.1. Critical activation stress of single slip system\par
\par
    For the single slip dislocation pile-up, two case studies are performed with different \u64257?xed incoming slip systems\par
[11\u772?0](111 ) and [110](11\u772?1 ), and nGB =(010). Fig. 13 shows the CRSS \u964? cs from Eq. (4.8) as a function of the misorientation\par
angle \u952? for the single pile-up (model parameters listed in Table 2). The lowest \u964? cs of these two cases has the same ten-\par
dency as a previous study (Spearot and Sangid, 2014). Owing to the symmetry of tilt GB, the evolution of \u964? cs for two\par
incoming slip systems is symmetric with respect to \u952? = 45o . Therefore, we only need to discuss the evolution of critical\par
                                                                                                                           \u945?\par
stresses with \u952? from 0o to 45o . At \u952? = 0o , the critical stress has the minimum value as the transformation coe\u64259?cient M\u946?A\par
                                                                                                                                                               B\par
                                                                                                                                    \u945?\par
reaches the maximum value 1 [Eq. (4.4)]. With increasing \u952? , both the stress on the FR source and M\u946?A decrease, leading to\par
                                                                                                             B\par
the initial increase of critical stress \u964? cs . If \u952? continues to increase, there will be several turning points in the evolution of\par
\u964? cs due to the activation of FR source in other outgoing slip systems, which leads to the decrease of \u964? cs . That is analogous\par
to the switching of outgoing slip system as discussed in Section 5.3.\par
\par
6.2. Critical activation stress of multiple slip systems\par
\par
    Activation behaviors of dislocation source for FCC material Al upon uniaxial loading is studied, and the critical activa-\par
tion stress \u963? cs given in Eq. (4.9) (uniaxial loading) is the minimum critical activation stresses of 12 potential outgoing slip\par
systems. nGB is set as (012) to avoid bA \u183? nGB = 0. The loading directions are selected as [001], [010], [012] and [013] (four\par
columns in Fig. 14) and dislocation motion resistance \u964? 0 is set as 5.23 MPa, 40 MPa and 100 MPa (three rows in Fig. 14 to\par
investigate these effects on critical activation stress.\par
    Fig. 14 shows that the pro\u64257?le of \u963? cs (\u952? ) exhibits feature of sensitivity to loading direction. This sensitivity to loading direc-\par
tion is mainly attributed to the variety of Schmid factors under different loading directions, which results in different RSSs\par
on incoming slip systems, and then indirectly in\u64258?uences dislocation pile-ups and local stress on the FR source. Unlike the\par
case of dislocation transmission which is prone to occur at LAGBs, due to the sensitivity of \u963? cs (\u952? ) to the loading direction,\par
it is di\u64259?cult to access the ease of activation behaviors in polycrystals through \u952? . On this basis, the reported results of dis-\par
location source activation in polycrystals can be interpreted, in which the activation of FR sources has no obvious tendency\par
with misorientation angles (Gen\u233?e et al., 2017).\par
\par
                                                                                13\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                                 Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
       Fig. 14. \u963? cs versus \u952? of multiple slip dislocation pile-ups at different \u964? 0 and loading directions (LDs). Model parameters are given in Table 2.\par
\par
\par
                                Table 2\par
                                Parameters for model calculation of FCC Al.\par
\par
                                  Parameters             De\u64257?nition                                  Values           Units\par
\par
                                  \u956?                      Shear modulus                              a\par
                                                                                                      26.1           GPa\par
                                                                                                    a\par
                                  b                      Magnitude of Burgers vector                  0.286          nm\par
                                  \u945?                      Dislocation e\u64259?cient                        a\par
                                                                                                      0.5            -\par
                                                                                                    a\par
                                  v                      Poisson ratio                                0.33           -\par
                                  \u964?0                     Dislocation motion resistance              a\par
                                                                                                      5.23           MPa\par
                                  D                      Grain size                                 10               \u956?m\par
                                  \u958?                      Model parameter                            0.08             J\u946? /m2\u946?\par
                                  \u946?                      Model parameter                            0.4              -\par
                                                                                                    b\par
                                  k                      HAGB energy                                  0.6            J/m2\par
                                  \u952?1                     Tilt GB parameter                          b\par
                                                                                                      20             deg\par
                                  \u952?2                     Tilt GB parameter                          b\par
                                                                                                      70             deg\par
                                                                                                    c\par
                                  ls                     Dislocation segment length                   286            nm\par
                                                                                                    c\par
                                  r0                     Radius of dislocation core                   0.286          nm\par
                                  xs                     Distance of FR source from GB              1.0              \u956?m\par
\par
                                Values with superscripts a, b, and c are adopted from a Meyers and Chawla (2009),              b\par
\par
                                Hasson and Goux (1971) and c Foreman (1967), respectively.\par
\par
\par
\par
    Because the effective stress on incoming slip system is determined by RSS and \u964? 0 , the dislocation pile-up is in\u64258?uenced by\par
\u964? 0 [Eq. (2.1)]. Under loading directions of [001] and [010] [see Figs. 14(a1)-(a3) and (b1)-(b3)], \u963? cs increases as \u964? 0 increases,\par
but the positions \u952? of local maximum of \u963? cs remain the same values. In the cases of loading directions of [012] and [013],\par
the increase of \u964? 0 shifts the \u963? cs (\u952? ) pro\u64257?le leftward, as shown in Figs. 14(c1)-(c3) and (d1)-(d3). It means that the effect of\par
\u964? 0 is coupled with the loading direction effects to affect the behavior of dislocation source activation.\par
   In this study, a more realistic theory of dislocation source activation is proposed in which the contribution of all slip sys-\par
tems is taken into account in the calculation of the stress on FR source. The model results are effective to explain some pre-\par
vious confusing experimental phenomena, such as the irregular distribution of misorientation angles for dislocation source\par
activation (Gen\u233?e et al., 2017).\par
\par
\par
6.3. Comparison between critical stresses for dislocation transmission and FR source activation\par
\par
   In Sections 5.2 and 6.2, the critical stress for dislocation transmission \u963? ct and dislocation source activation \u963? cs are dis-\par
cussed, and the low misorientation angle \u952? is shown to facilitate the dislocation transmission. In addition to \u952? , the activation\par
of dislocation source depends on the loading direction. To explore the competition behaviors of these two mechanisms, here\par
\par
                                                                              14\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                                   Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
      Fig. 15. Critical stress ratio \u963? ct /\u963? cs between dislocation transmission and source activation under loading directions (a-b) [010] and (c-d) [001].\par
\par
\par
\par
we analyze the ratio of critical stresses \u963? ct /\u963? cs . \u963? cs and \u963? ct are determined from Eqs. (4.9) and (5.2), respectively. Material\par
parameters are listed in Table 2, and nGB =(012). Two loading directions [010] and [001] are selected.\par
     Fig. 15 displays \u963? ct /\u963? cs with various \u952? and xs . As xs increases, \u963? ct /\u963? cs decreases, consistent with Fig. 12 showing that\par
the stress ahead of the dislocation pile-up decreases with increasing distance from GB. The FR source far away from GB\par
is di\u64259?cult to be activated, and thus the plastic zone induced by dislocation pile-ups forms near GB as shown in Fig. 2.\par
\u963? ct /\u963? cs increases as \u952? increases from 0o to 45o , meaning that the dislocation transmission is easier to occur at LAGB, but\par
FR source activation is prone to occur at HAGB. The underlying physical reasons are that, the dislocation transmission across\par
LAGB suffers small resistance, and the dislocation pile-up can be relaxed and there would not be enough stress to activate\par
the dislocation source. However, the HAGB provides a high resistance for dislocation transmission, leading to signi\u64257?cant\par
dislocation pile-ups and dislocation source activations. It is noted that this conclusion is only valid for 100 tilt GBs. For\par
certain GBs with low interfacial energy, the dislocation-GB interactions could be more affected by EGB than \u952? (Sangid et al.,\par
2011).\par
     The contour plots of \u963? ct /\u963? cs are shown in Figs. 15(b) and (d). At \u963? ct /\u963? cs > 1, activation of FR source dominates\par
dislocation-GB interactions. At \u963? ct /\u963? cs \u8776? 1, FR source activation and dislocation transmission can occur simultaneously as\par
observed in experiments (see Fig. 2) (Gen\u233?e et al., 2017). At \u963? ct /\u963? cs < 1, dislocation transmission prevails. In addition,\par
\u963? ct /\u963? cs in the loading direction [010] is smaller than that in the loading direction [001], which means that the source acti-\par
vation further away from GB can be activated under the loading direction [001]. Although the FR source activation is sen-\par
sitive to the loading direction, the activation behavior under different loading directions still does not occur at very small\par
\u952? due to the relaxation of dislocation pile-ups during dislocation transmission, which is consistent with the experimental\par
observations (Gen\u233?e et al., 2017; Joseph et al., 2018).\par
     Finally, the relation between three factors proposed in LRB criteria (Lee et al., 1989; 1990) and dislocation-GB interac-\par
tions can be clari\u64257?ed. Overall, the misorientation angle between the incoming and outgoing slip planes and the residual\par
dislocation can equally affect the energy barrier for dislocation transmission. However, the RSS on the outgoing slip system\par
arising from the dislocation pile-up dominates the activation of dislocation sources in adjacent grains. In this study, the ef-\par
fects of residual stress, local differences in statistical strength, non-uniform inter- and intragranular mechanical \u64257?elds on the\par
dislocation-GB interaction are not considered, which in certain cases might play collective roles in affecting the dislocation-\par
GB interaction. A thorough and cross-scale theoretical modeling considering these factors is challenging and deserves further\par
dedicated investigations with incorporation of crystal plasticity \u64257?nite element method.\par
\par
7. Conclusions\par
\par
    In this work, a theoretical model is developed to study the dislocation-grain boundary (GB) interaction with focus on the\par
dislocation transmission and dislocation source activation. This model not only quantitatively describes the microstructure-\par
\par
                                                                               15\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                      Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
related dislocation-GB interaction, but also clari\u64257?es the misorientation angle-dependent competition relation between dis-\par
location transmission and dislocation source activation. Speci\u64257?cally, the energy released from the end of dislocation pile-\par
up goes over the energy barrier characterized by the residual dislocation tensor and GB energy to drive the dislocation\par
transmission across GB. Based on the residual dislocation tensor, the critical transmission stress can be connected with the\par
phenomenological plastic compatibility factor. In addition, critical stress that activates Frank-Read (FR) sources in adjacent\par
grains is examined by evaluating the local stress ahead of the dislocation pile-up. In contrast to the formulation of single\par
slip dislocation pile-up, a more realistic formulation of multiple slip dislocation pile-ups is proposed to investigate the ac-\par
tivation behaviors of dislocation source, in which the contribution of all incoming slip systems is taken into account in the\par
calculation of the stress on FR source.\par
    100 tilt GBs are taken as examples to systematically study the dislocation-GB interaction. Main conclusions are sum-\par
marized as follows.\par
\par
(1) The quantitative analysis shows that with increasing misorientation angle, the critical stress of dislocation transmission\par
    increases, which also displays the dependence of grain size. In addition, the model accurately predicts the activation of\par
    primary and secondary outgoing slip systems observed in reported experiments.\par
(2) Critical stress of dislocation source activation is quantitatively analyzed for single and multiple slip dislocation pile-ups.\par
    Compared with single slip system, the result of multiple slip systems shows lower critical activation stress and loading\par
    direction sensitivity, interpreting the reported results of dislocation source activation in polycrystals.\par
(3) Comparing the activation stresses of dislocation transmission and dislocation source activation for 100 tilt GBs, the\par
    dislocation transmission dominates dislocation-GB interaction at low angle GB, whereas the dislocation source activation\par
    is more likely to occur at high angle GB.\par
\par
Declaration of Competing Interest\par
\par
    The authors have no con\u64258?icts of interest to disclose.\par
\par
CRediT authorship contribution statement\par
\par
   Wenbin Liu: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Validation, Formal analysis, Writing - original draft. Ying Liu:\par
Methodology, Writing - review & editing. Haonan Sui: Methodology, Writing - review & editing. Lirong Chen: Investiga-\par
tion, Writing - review & editing. Long Yu: Investigation, Writing - review & editing. Xin Yi: Writing - review & editing,\par
Supervision, Project administration, Funding acquisition. Huiling Duan: Writing - review & editing, Supervision, Project ad-\par
ministration, Funding acquisition.\par
\par
Acknowledgments\par
\par
   The authors acknowledge the computation resources supported by the High-performance Computing Platform of Peking\par
University. Financial support for this work was provided by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Nos.\par
11632001, 11521202, 11988102, U1830121), National Science and Technology Major Project (Grant No. 2017-VI-0 0 03-0 073),\par
and Science Challenge Project (Grant No. TZ2018001).\par
\par
Appendix\par
\par
   The coordinate transformation tensor from the crystal coordinate system to sample frames is determined by Euler angles\par
(\u968? 1 , \u952? 1 , \u981? 1 ) as (Bunge de\u64257?nition)\par
                             \par
         g = gij ei  e j                                                                                                                  (A.1)\par
with the coordinate transformation tensor g given as\par
                                                                                                                              \par
          i            cos \u968?1 cos \u981?1 \u8722? sin \u968?1 sin \u981?1 cos \u952?1     sin \u968?1 cos \u981?1 + cos \u968?1 sin \u981?1 cos \u952?1         sin \u981?1 sin \u952?1\par
          g j =        \u8722? cos \u968?1 sin \u981?1 \u8722? sin \u968?1 cos \u981?1 cos \u952?1   \u8722? sin \u968?1 sin \u981?1 + cos \u968?1 cos \u952?1 cos \u981?1        cos \u981?1 sin \u952?1 .              (A.2)\par
                                     sin \u968?1 sin \u952?1                          \u8722? cos \u968?1 sin \u952?1                       cos \u952?1\par
Here e1 = [100], e2 = [010] and e3 = [001] are the basis vectors in the crystal coordinate system. e1 , e2 and e3 are the\par
                                                     \par
basis vectors in the sample frame and e1 , e2 and e3 are the corresponding dual vectors.\par
   For the tilt or twist GBs with the sample frame coinciding with the grain A frame, the coordinate transformation tensor\par
       \par
R = Rij ei  e j (R = g-1 ) is determined with the rotation axis (\u969?x , \u969?y , \u969?z ) in crystal coordinate and angle \u966? (clockwise\par
rotation) (Rodrigues\u8217? rotation formula) as\par
                                                                                                                          \par
          i        \u969?x2 (1 \u8722? cos \u966? ) + cos \u966?         \u969?x \u969?y (1 \u8722? cos \u966? ) + \u969?z sin \u966?   \u969?x \u969?z (1 \u8722? cos \u966? ) \u8722? \u969?y sin \u966?\par
          Rj      = \u969?x \u969?y (1 \u8722? cos \u966? ) \u8722? \u969?z sin \u966?        \u969?y2 (1 \u8722? cos \u966? ) + cos \u966?      \u969?y \u969?z (1 \u8722? cos \u966? ) + \u969?x sin \u966?                        (A.3)\par
                    \u969?x \u969?z (1 \u8722? cos \u966? ) + \u969?y sin \u966?      \u969?y \u969?z (1 \u8722? cos \u966? ) \u8722? \u969?x sin \u966?     \u969?z2 (1 \u8722? cos \u966? ) + cos \u966?\par
                                                                      16\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                                      Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
with \u969?x 2 + \u969?y 2 + \u969?z 2 = 1. Then the slip vector b and normal vector n of the slip plane in the sample frame of grains A and\par
B can be obtained as\par
           bA = R \u183? bcA , bB = R \u183? bcB ,\par
           nA = R \u183? ncA , nB = R \u183? ncB ,                                                                                                                       (A.4)\par
           nGB = R \u183? ncGB\par
with superscripts \u8220?c\u8221? representing vectors in the crystal frame.\par
                                                                         \par
   Using Eq. (A.3), we could determine the transformation tensor T = T ji ei  e j satisfying T \u183? bA = bB , where the angle \u981?\par
                                                                                                         \par
between bA and bB is given by Eq. (3.7) and the rotation axis k = kx , ky , kz in crystal coordinate perpendicular to the\par
plane composed by bA and bB is de\u64257?ned by Eq. (3.8). Under this de\u64257?nition, the tensor T can be expressed as\par
                                                                                                                                     \par
          i           k2x (1 \u8722? cos \u981? ) + cos \u981?           kx ky (1 \u8722? cos \u981? ) \u8722? kz sin \u981?          kx kz (1 \u8722? cos \u981? ) + ky sin \u981?\par
          Tj      =   kx ky (1 \u8722? cos \u981? ) + kz sin \u981?            k2y (1 \u8722? cos \u981? ) + cos \u981?            ky kz (1 \u8722? cos \u981? ) \u8722? kx sin \u981? .                             (A.5)\par
                      kx kz (1 \u8722? cos \u981? ) \u8722? ky sin \u981?         ky kz (1 \u8722? cos \u981? ) + kx sin \u981?             k2z (1 \u8722? cos \u981? ) + cos \u981?\par
\par
References\par
\par
Abuzaid, W.Z., Sangid, M.D., Carroll, J.D., Sehitoglu, H., Lambros, J., 2012. Slip transfer and plastic strain accumulation across grain boundaries in\par
      Hastelloy X. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 60, 1201\u8211?1220.\par
Adlakha, I., Solanki, K.N., 2016. Critical assessment of hydrogen effects on the slip transmission across grain boundaries in \u945? -Fe. Proc. R. Soc. A 472,\par
      20150617.\par
Akarapu, S., Hirth, J.P., 2013. Dislocation pile-ups in stress gradients revisited. Acta Mater. 61, 3621\u8211?3629.\par
Anderson, T.L., 2005. Fracture Mechanics: Fundamentals and Applications, 3rd ed. CRC Press, Boca Raton.\par
Bayerschen, E., McBride, A.T., Reddy, B.D., B\u246?hlke, T., 2016. Review on slip transmission criteria in experiments and crystal plasticity models. J. Mater. Sci.\par
      51, 2243\u8211?2258.\par
Bieler, T.R., Alizadeh, R., Pe\u241?a-Ortega, M., Llorca, J., 2019. An analysis of (the lack of) slip transfer between near-cube oriented grains in pure. Al. Int. J. Plast.\par
      118, 269\u8211?290.\par
Britton, B.T., Wilkinson, A.J., 2012. Stress \u64257?elds and geometrically necessary dislocation density distributions near the head of a blocked slip band. Acta\par
      Mater. 60, 5773\u8211?5782.\par
Chandra, S., Samal, M.K., Chavan, V.M., Patel, R.J., 2016. An atomistic study of resistance offered by twist grain boundaries to incoming edge dislocation in\par
      FCC metals. Mater. Lett. 180, 11\u8211?14.\par
Chen, B., Jiang, J., Dunne, F.P.E., 2017. Microstructurally-sensitive fatigue crack nucleation in Ni-based single and oligo crystals. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 106,\par
      15\u8211?33.\par
Cottrell, A.H., 1958. Theory of brittle fracture in steel and similar metals. Trans. Metall. Soc. AIME 212, 192\u8211?203.\par
Cui, B., Kacher, J., McMurtrey, M., Was, G., Robertson, I.M., 2014. In\u64258?uence of irradiation damage on slip transfer across grain boundaries. Acta Mater. 65,\par
      150\u8211?160.\par
Davis, K.G., Teghtsoonian, E., Lu, A., 1966. Slip band continuity across grain boundaries in aluminum. Acta Metall. 14, 1677\u8211?1684.\par
Ding, R., Gong, J., Wilkinson, A.J., Jones, I.P., 2016. A study of dislocation transmission through a grain boundary in hcp Ti\u8211?6Al using micro-cantilevers. Acta\par
      Mater. 103, 416\u8211?423.\par
Eshelby, J.D., Frank, F.C., Nabarro, F.R.N., 1951. The equilibrium of linear arrays of dislocations. Philos. Mag. 42, 351\u8211?364.\par
Foreman, A.J.E., 1967. The bowing of a dislocation segment. Philos. Mag. 15, 1011\u8211?1021.\par
Gemperlov\u225?, J., Jacques, A., Gemperle, A., Vystavel, T., Z\u225?rubov\u225?, N., Janecek, M., 2002. In-situ transmission electron microscopy observation of slip propa-\par
      gation in  3 bicrystals. Mater. Sci. Eng. A 324, 183\u8211?189.\par
Gen\u233?e, J., Signor, L., Villechaise, P., 2017. Slip transfer across grain/twin boundaries in polycrystalline Ni-based superalloys. Mater. Sci. Eng. A 701, 24\u8211?33.\par
Guo, Y., Britton, T.B., Wilkinson, A.J., 2014. Slip band\u8211?grain boundary interactions in commercial-purity titanium. Acta Mater. 76, 1\u8211?12.\par
Guo, Y., Collins, D.M., Tarleton, E., Hofmann, F., Tischler, J., Liu, W., Xu, R., Wilkinson, A.J., Britton, T.B., 2015. Measurements of stress \u64257?elds near a grain\par
      boundary: Exploring blocked arrays of dislocations in 3D. Acta Mater. 96, 229\u8211?236.\par
Gurtin, M.E., 2008. A theory of grain boundaries that accounts automatically for grain misorientation and grain-boundary orientation. J. Mech. Phys. Solids\par
      56, 640\u8211?662.\par
Hall, E.O., 1951. The deformation and ageing of mild steel: III discussion of results. Proc. Phys. Soc. B 64, 747\u8211?753.\par
Han, J., Thomas, S.L., Srolovitz, D.J., 2018. Grain-boundary kinetics: A uni\u64257?ed approach. Prog. Mater. Sci. 98, 386\u8211?476.\par
Haouala, S., Alizadeh, R., Bieler, T.R., Segurado, J., Llorca, J., 2020. Effect of slip transmission at grain boundaries in Al bicrystals. Int. J. Plast. 126, 102600.\par
Hasson, G.C., Goux, C., 1971. Interfacial energies of tilt boundaries in aluminium. Experimental and theoretical determination. Scr. Metall. 5, 889\u8211?894.\par
H\u233?mery, S., Nizou, P., Villechaise, P., 2018. In situ SEM investigation of slip transfer in Ti-6Al-4V: Effect of applied stress. Mater. Sci. Eng. A 709, 277\u8211?284.\par
Hirth, J.P., Lothe, J., 1982. Theory of Dislocations, 2nd ed. Wiley, New York.\par
Hull, D., Bacon, D.J., 2011. Introduction to Dislocations. Butterworth-Heinemann, 5th ed. Elsevier, Oxford.\par
Joseph, S., Bantounas, I., Lindley, T.C., Dye, D., 2018. Slip transfer and deformation structures resulting from the low cycle fatigue of near-alpha titanium\par
      alloy Ti-6242Si. Int. J. Plast. 100, 90\u8211?103.\par
Kacher, J., Eftink, B.P., Cui, B., Robertson, I.M., 2014. Dislocation interactions with grain boundaries. Curr. Opin. Solid State Mater. Sci. 18, 227\u8211?243.\par
Kapoor, R., Verdhan, N., 2017. Interaction of dislocation pile-up with a low-angle tilt boundary: a discrete dislocation dynamics study. Philos. Mag. 97,\par
      465\u8211?488.\par
Lee, T.C., Robertson, I.M., Birnbaum, H.K., 1989. Prediction of slip transfer mechanisms across grain boundaries. Scr. Metall. 23, 799\u8211?803.\par
Lee, T.C., Robertson, I.M., Birnbaum, H.K., 1990. TEM in situ deformation study of the interaction of lattice dislocations with grain boundaries in metals.\par
      Philos. Mag. A 62, 131\u8211?153.\par
Leibfried, G., 1951. Verteilung von Versetzungen im statischen Gleichgewicht. Z. Physik 130, 214\u8211?226.\par
Li, J.L., Wu, D., Chen, R.S., Han, E.H., 2018. Anomalous effects of strain rate on the room-temperature ductility of a cast Mg-Gd-Y-Zr alloy. Acta Mater. 159,\par
      31\u8211?45.\par
Li, L.L., Zhang, P., Zhang, Z.J., Zhang, Z.F., 2013. Effect of crystallographic orientation and grain boundary character on fatigue cracking behaviors of coaxial\par
      copper bicrystals. Acta Mater. 61, 425\u8211?438.\par
Li, X., Lu, K., 2019. Improving sustainability with simpler alloys. Science 364, 733\u8211?734.\par
Li, Z., Hou, C., Huang, M., Ouyang, C., 2009. Strengthening mechanism in micro-polycrystals with penetrable grain boundaries by discrete dislocation dy-\par
      namics simulation and Hall\u8211?Petch effect. Comput. Mater. Sci. 46, 1124\u8211?1134.\par
Lim, L.C., 1989. Cavity nucleation at high temperatures involving pile-ups of grain boundary dislocations\u8212?effect of solutes and impurities. Acta Metall. 37,\par
      969\u8211?977.\par
Lin, Y., Pan, J., Zhou, H.F., Gao, H.J., Li, Y., 2018. Mechanical properties and optimal grain size distribution pro\u64257?le of gradient grained nickel. Acta Mater. 153,\par
      279\u8211?289.\par
\par
\par
                                                                                  17\par
W. Liu, Y. Liu, H. Sui et al.                                                                   Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 145 (2020) 104158\par
\par
\par
Liu, B., Eisenlohr, P., Roters, F., Raabe, D., 2012. Simulation of dislocation penetration through a general low-angle grain boundary. Acta Mater. 60, 5380\u8211?5390.\par
Liu, D., He, Y., Zhang, B., Shen, L., 2014. A continuum theory of stress gradient plasticity based on the dislocation pile-up model. Acta Mater. 80, 350\u8211?364.\par
Livingston, J.D., Chalmers, B., 1957. Multiple slip in bicrystal deformation. Acta Metall. 5, 322\u8211?327.\par
Lu, K., Lu, L., Suresh, S., 2009. Strengthening materials by engineering coherent internal boundaries at the nanoscale. Science 324, 349\u8211?352.\par
Lu, S., Zhang, B., Li, X., Zhao, J., Zaiser, M., Fan, H., Zhang, X., 2019. Grain boundary effect on nanoindentation: A multiscale discrete dislocation dynamics\par
     model. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 126, 117\u8211?135.\par
Luster, J., Morris, M.A., 1995. Compatibility of deformation in two-phase Ti-Al alloys: Dependence on microstructure and orientation relationships. Metall.\par
     Mater. Trans. A 26, 1745\u8211?1756.\par
Ma, A., Roters, F., Raabe, D., 2006. Studying the effect of grain boundaries in dislocation density based crystal-plasticity \u64257?nite element simulations. Int. J.\par
     Solids Struct. 43, 7287\u8211?7303.\par
Meyers, M.A., Chawla, K.K., 2009. Mechanical Behavior of Materials, 2nd ed. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England.\par
Olmsted, D.L., Foiles, S.M., Holm, E.A., 2009. Survey of computed grain boundary properties in face-centered cubic metals: I. Grain boundary energy. Acta\par
     Mater. 57, 3694\u8211?3703.\par
Pan, B., Shibutani, Y., Zhang, X., Shang, F., 2015. Effect of dislocation pile-up on size-dependent yield strength in \u64257?nite single-crystal micro-samples. J. Appl.\par
     Phys. 118, 014305.\par
Petch, N.J., 1953. The cleavage strength of polycrystals. J. Iron. Steel. Inst. 174, 25\u8211?28.\par
Quek, S.S., Wu, Z., Zhang, Y.W., Srolovitz, D.J., 2014. Polycrystal deformation in a discrete dislocation dynamics framework. Acta Mater. 75, 92\u8211?105.\par
Sangid, M.D., Ezaz, T., Sehitoglu, H., Robertson, I.M., 2011. Energy of slip transmission and nucleation at grain boundaries. Acta Mater. 59, 283\u8211?296.\par
Sch\u228?fer, F., Weiter, L., Marx, M., Motz, C., 2016. Quantifying the grain boundary resistance against slip transfer by experimental combination of geometric\par
     and stress approach using stage-I-fatigue cracks. Philos. Mag. 96, 3524\u8211?3551.\par
Shanthraj, P., Zikry, M.A., 2013. Microstructurally induced fracture nucleation and propagation in martensitic steels. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 61, 1091\u8211?1105.\par
Shen, Z., Wagoner, R.H., Clark, W.A.T., 1986. Dislocation pile-up and grain boundary interactions in 304 stainless steel. Scr. Metall. 20, 921\u8211?926.\par
Shen, Z., Wagoner, R.H., Clark, W.A.T., 1988. Dislocation and grain boundary interactions in metals. Acta Metall. 36, 3231\u8211?3242.\par
Spearot, D.E., Sangid, M.D., 2014. Insights on slip transmission at grain boundaries from atomistic simulations. Curr. Opin. Solid State Mater. Sci. 18, 188\u8211?195.\par
Tschopp, M.A., McDowell, D.L., 2007. Asymmetric tilt grain boundary structure and energy in copper and aluminium. Philos. Mag. 87, 3871\u8211?3892.\par
Tsuru, T., Shibutani, Y., Kaji, Y., 2009. Fundamental interaction process between pure edge dislocation and energetically stable grain boundary. Phys. Rev. B\par
     79, 012104.\par
Verdhan, N., Kapoor, R., 2015. Interaction of dislocations with low angle tilt boundaries in fcc crystals. Comput. Mater. Sci. 98, 149\u8211?157.\par
Wang, L., Zhou, J., Zhang, S., Liu, H., Dong, S., 2014. Effect of dislocation\u8211?GB interactions on crack blunting in nanocrystalline materials. Mater. Sci. Eng. A\par
     592, 128\u8211?135.\par
Wang, Y., Chen, M., Zhou, F., Ma, E., 2002. High tensile ductility in a nanostructured metal. Nature 419, 912\u8211?915.\par
Wilson, D., Zheng, Z., Dunne, F.P.E., 2018. A microstructure-sensitive driving force for crack growth. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 121, 147\u8211?174.\par
Yoo, M.H., Trinkaus, H., 1986. Interaction of slip with grain boundary and its role in cavity nucleation. Acta Metall. 34, 2381\u8211?2390.\par
Zhang, Z.F., Wang, Z.G., 2003. Dependence of intergranular fatigue cracking on the interactions of persistent slip bands with grain boundaries. Acta Mater.\par
     51, 347\u8211?364.\par
Zhu, Y., Wang, H., Zhu, X., Xiang, Y., 2014. A continuum model for dislocation dynamics incorporating Frank\u8211?Read sources and Hall\u8211?Petch relation in two\par
     dimensions. Int. J. Plast. 60, 19\u8211?39.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                               18\par

}