{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
                                    npj | computational materials                                                                                                                  Article\par
                                    Published in partnership with the Shanghai Institute of Ceramics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                              https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-024-01378-4\par
\par
\par
                                    Learning dislocation dynamics mobility\par
                                    laws from large-scale MD simulations\par
                                                                                                                                                                              Check for updates\par
\par
                                    Nicolas Bertin         , Vasily V. Bulatov      & Fei Zhou\par
\par
\par
                                    By dispensing with all the atoms and only focusing on dislocation lines, the computational method of\par
                                    Discrete Dislocation Dynamics (DDD) gains greatly over Molecular Dynamics (MD) in simulation\par
                                    ef\u64257?ciency of metal plasticity. But whereas in MD dislocations follow natural dynamics of atomic\par
                                    motion, DDD must rely on a dislocation mobility function to prescribe how a dislocation line should\par
                  1234567890():,;\par
1234567890():,;\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                    respond to the driving force exerted on it. However, re\u64258?ecting our still incomplete understanding of\par
                                    ways in which dislocations move, mobility functions presently employed in DDD simulations entail\par
                                    simpli\u64257?cations and approximations of limited or, worse still, unknown accuracy and applicability. Here\par
                                    we introduce a data-driven approach in which the dislocation mobility function is modeled as a graph\par
                                    neural network (GNN) trained on large-scale MD simulations of crystal plasticity. We apply our\par
                                    proposed approach to predicting plastic strength of body-centered-cubic (BCC) metal tungsten and\par
                                    show that, once implemented in a DDD model, our GNN dislocation mobility function accurately\par
                                    reproduces the challenging tension/compression asymmetry of plastic \u64258?ow observed both in ground-\par
                                    truth MD simulations and in experiment. Furthermore, subsequently validated by MD simulations, the\par
                                    same function accurately predicts plastic response of tungsten under conditions not previously seen\par
                                    in training. By demonstrating its ability to learn relevant physics of dislocation motion, our DDD+ML\par
                                    approach opens a promising avenue to bringing \u64257?delity of DDD models closer in line with direct MD\par
                                    simulations at a much reduced computational cost.\par
\par
                                    The mesoscopic method of Discrete Dislocation Dynamics (DDD) aims                  The key material-speci\u64257?c ingredient of a DDD model encapsulating\par
                                    to compute crystal plasticity response from the motion and interaction of     the physics of dislocation motion is a dislocation mobility function used to\par
                                    dislocations1\u8211?7. DDD is de\u64257?ned on dislocation lines represented as            predict velocity of a dislocation segment in response to mechanical force or\par
                                    interconnected dislocation segments thus reducing the number of               stress seen by the segment. Typically, dislocation motion is assumed to be\par
                                    degrees of freedom by many orders of magnitude compared to an ato-            over-damped (ignoring inertia) and its velocity is computed as\par
                                    mistic model of the same crystal. Given its relative computational ef\u64257?-\par
                                    ciency, DDD has been long regarded as a promising scale-bridging                                          dr i    h                 i\par
                                                                                                                                       Vi \u188?        \u188? M F i fr j g; fbjk g                   \u240?1\u222?\par
                                    method capable of directly connecting macroscopic crystal plasticity to                                   dt\par
                                    the underlying microscopic mechanisms of dislocation motion. It is only\par
                                    relatively recently, owing to the steadily growing HPC capabilities, that     where rj and bjk are positions of nodes and the Burgers vectors of segments\par
                                    fully atomistic Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations of bulk crystal           de\u64257?ning the set of vertices and edges of a geometric graph G \u188? \u240?V; E\u222?\par
                                    plasticity have become possible8\u8211?11. Still, owing to their high computa-      representing the dislocation network.\par
                                    tional cost, MD simulations of crystal plasticity remain limited to                Physical \u64257?delity of a DDD simulation is predicated on availability of an\par
                                    deformation rates many orders higher than rates typical of quasistatic        accurate dislocation mobility function M. Owing to dif\u64257?culties in extracting\par
                                    mechanical tests. Furthermore, MD simulations are presently limited to        the force-velocity relationship from experiments, dislocation theory has\par
                                    sub-micron length scales that are too small compared to length scales         been used to predict dislocation mobility, e.g. by computing the nucleation\par
                                    characteristic of dislocation microstructures observed under quasistatic      energy barrier and the critical stress for dislocation motion controlled by\par
                                    deformation conditions. Thus, when it comes to quasistatic deformation,       kink-pair mechanisms12\u8211?14 or by extracting a dislocation drag coef\u64257?cient\par
                                    DDD is likely to remain the method of choice for predicting crystal           from the spectrum of thermal \u64258?uctuations15. It has become common\par
                                    plasticity from dislocation motion for years to come.                         practice to calibrate dislocation mobility functions against MD simulations\par
\par
\par
                                    Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, CA, USA.     e-mail: bertin1@llnl.gov\par
\par
\par
                                    npj Computational Materials | (2024)10:192                                                                                                               1\par
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-024-01378-4                                                                                                           Article\par
\par
of individual dislocations. Within this approach, a parametric functional         Results\par
form of the mobility function is \u8220?hand-crafted\u8221? based on physical knowl-          DDD+ML model\par
edge or intuition and its parameters are \u64257?tted to reproduce dislocation           Viewed as a network, dislocation microstructure is a natural geometric\par
velocities observed in MD calculations of isolated dislocations of various line   graph (Fig. 1). Recently explored in a simpli\u64257?ed model25, this correspon-\par
orientations (e.g. edge, screw, mixed) performed under stress and tem-            dence is further exploited here by training a GNN to predict mobility of\par
perature conditions of interest14,16\u8211?22. Widely adopted, the conventional         dislocation segments comprising dislocation networks. For training the\par
calibration work\u64258?ow is based on a rarely articulated assumption of                GNN we use dislocation network con\u64257?gurations extracted using the dis-\par
transferability23, namely that mobility of individual/isolated dislocations is    location extraction algorithm (DXA)26,27 from large-scale (ground-truth)\par
representative of mobility of dislocation segments incorporated in a dis-         MD simulations.\par
location networks formed under deformation. Such an assumption leaves                  In a nodal version of DDD widely adopted by its practitioners, training\par
aside possible effects of dislocation connectedness on dislocation mobility,      a GNN to serve as a dislocation mobility function entails learning a rela-\par
such as was recently observed in ref. 24.                                         tionship between the input (force on the node) and the output (node\par
     Here we propose an alternative approach to calibration of dis-               velocity) vectors given the instantaneous geometry and topology of the\par
location mobility functions that does not rely on the assumption of               dislocation network (Eq. (1)). Although the task may appear straightfor-\par
transferability and accounts for network effects on dislocation motion.           ward, two practical complications arise. First, it is dif\u64257?cult to accurately\par
Instead of extracting mobility parameters from MD simulations of                  de\u64257?ne mechanical force acting on a dislocation node in an atomistic MD\par
individual dislocations, in our proposed DDD+ML approach dis-                     model (more on this later). Second, the DXA algorithm extracts only\par
location mobility is predicted by a graph neural network (GNN) trained            instantaneous con\u64257?gurations of dislocation networks thus velocities of\par
on dislocation trajectories extracted from massive MD simulations of              dislocation nodes have to be inferred from displacements of dislocation\par
crystal plasticity. In training our GNN-based mobility functions we               nodes over the time interval between two subsequent DXA snapshots.\par
regard MD simulations as the ground-truth that subsequent DDD+ML                  Consider two graphs Gt and Gt\u254?\u916?t representing consecutive states of a\par
simulations are intended to reproduce. Using body-centered cubic                  dislocation network at times t and t + \u916?t, respectively (Fig. 1a). More often\par
(BCC) tungsten as a testbed material model, we show that GNN can                  than not, graphs Gt and Gt\u254?\u916?t constructed by the DXA algorithm are not\par
learn non-trivial physics of dislocation motion and, when subsequently            topologically isomorphic, meaning in particular that some of the graph\par
used as a mobility function in DDD simulations, matches plasticity                nodes present at time t no longer exist at time t + \u916?t and vice versa. This\par
response observed in MD simulations used in training as well as in                complication is due to different meshing of dislocation lines in two DXA\par
MD simulations performed under previously unseen deformation                      networks as well as due to topological events (e.g. dislocation collisions,\par
conditions.                                                                       cutting, etc) taking place over the time interval between t and t + \u916?t. This\par
\par
\par
Fig. 1 | The DDD+ML approach. a A schematic\par
showing two consecutive dislocation networks Gt\par
and Gt\u254?\u916?t extracted using DXA from two MD tra-\par
jectory snapshots at times t (solid lines) and t + \u916?t\par
(dashed lines). As returned by DXA, two network\par
con\u64257?gurations are de\u64257?ned by nodal positions r = \{ri\}\par
and Burgers vectors of their dislocation segments b =\par
\{bij\}, but are generally non-isomorphic and contain\par
no information about mechanical forces driving\par
dislocation motion. Not having the same nodes\par
present in both networks leaves it uncertain how to\par
de\u64257?ne nodal velocities. For instance, three arrows of\par
different colors pointing out of node 2 show three\par
possible ways to de\u64257?ne its velocity V2. b A schematic\par
of inference and training loops of our proposed\par
work\u64258?ow for developing a GNN dislocation mobi-\par
lity function. c An illustration of the Nye\u8217?s tensor\par
\u64257?eld-matching approach circumventing the ill-\par
de\u64257?ned problem of matching nodal velocities. As\par
exempli\u64257?ed here, our \u64257?eld-matching procedure is\par
agnostic to details of line discretization and network\par
topology.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
npj Computational Materials | (2024)10:192                                                                                                                   2\par
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-024-01378-4                                                                                                                      Article\par
\par
lack of isomorphism makes it impossible to establish a one-to-one corre-                 the \u64257?eld representation of the network at a later time ts + \u916?ts, Fig. 1c.\par
spondence between dislocation nodes in two consecutive network con\u64257?g-                    De\u64257?ning and computing training loss on a static grid addresses the see-\par
urations as needed to de\u64257?ne nodal velocities. As such, learning on nodal                 mingly ill-de\u64257?ned problem of matching topology of two generally non-\par
velocity vectors is not a well-de\u64257?ned task for machine-learning (ML).                    isomorphic graphs.\par
     We propose to address both these challenges of unknown ground-                           Calculations of the Nye\u8217?s tensor \u64257?eld produced by dislocation networks\par
truth force and velocity vectors in the following way. First, to address the             are only required for computing and back-propagating parameters \u952? during\par
issue of de\u64257?ning the mechanical force Fi on a dislocation node i, we assume              training. Once trained, only the GNN-based mobility function in Eq. (4)\par
that a substantial part of it seen by each node in an MD simulation can be               needs to be evaluated at the inference time, Fig. 1b. Our GNN model and its\par
estimated from the standard solutions of dislocation theory commonly                     training protocol are implemented in PyTorch30.\par
employed in DDD simulations, e.g.\par
                                                                                         Validation on DDD trajectories\par
                            F DDD\par
                              i   \u188? F ext\par
                                      i \u254? Fi \u254? Fi\par
                                           int  core\par
                                                                                   \u240?2\u222?   Although our intent is to train GNN-based mobility functions on disloca-\par
                                                                                         tion trajectories extracted from MD simulations, it can be insightful to \u64257?rst\par
         i is mechanical force due to an externally applied stress, F i is due\par
where F ext                                                           int\par
                                                                                         test the method by observing if and how well a GNN trained on a DDD\par
to elastic interactions among dislocation segments, and F i is associated\par
                                                            core\par
                                                                                         simulation itself can reproduce its known (user-de\u64257?ned) mobility function.\par
with the dislocation core. That this DDD force is only an approximation of               For this purpose here we use a generic linear function previously developed\par
the true force F MD\par
                 i   exerted on node i in an MD simulation can be expressed              for BCC metals31 and implemented in our DDD code ParaDiS7\par
as\par
                                                                                                                 V i \u188? MDDD \u240?M e ; M s \u222?  F DDD\par
                                                                                                                                             i                        \u240?6\u222?\par
                               F MD\par
                                 i  \u188? F DDD\par
                                        i   \u254? F corr\par
                                                i                                  \u240?3\u222?\par
                                                                                         where MDDD is a mobility tensor parameterized by two scalar coef\u64257?cients\par
where F corr\par
        i    is an unknown correction term accounting for the error made in              Me = 2600(Pa\u8901?s)\u8722?1 and Ms = 20(Pa\u8901?s)\u8722?1 de\u64257?ning mobility of an isolated edge\par
approximating the true force using Eq. (2). Given that the external and the              and an isolated screw dislocation, respectively.\par
interaction terms in the DDD force are smoothly varying functions that are                     To generate training data, we ran \u64257?ve DDD simulations starting from\par
accurately and ef\u64257?ciently computed in DDD, the correction term in Eq. (3)                \u64257?ve different initial distributions of 12 prismatic loops seeded at random\par
is expected to be a \u8221?shortsighted\u8221? function of the local network topology and            positions. Identical except for their initial states, \u64257?ve crystals were subjected\par
geometry which we leave for the GNN model to learn. Thus we de\u64257?ne the                    to compressive straining along their [001] axes at a constant strain rate of\par
nodal mobility function MGNN   \u952?    as a parametric function with learnable              2 \u215? 108/s which are also the conditions of MD simulations intended for\par
parameters \u952?,                                                                            training (see next section). The \u64257?ve simulations were run to 0.5 ns over\par
                                                                                       which time dislocation networks were saved at regular intervals of 0.25 ps\par
                       V i \u188? MGNN   F DDD ; fN j g; fEjk g ;                       \u240?4\u222?   thus producing 10,000 con\u64257?gurations for training. Following the procedure\par
                              \u952?       i\par
                                                                                         described in \u8220?DDD+ML model\u8221?, for each training con\u64257?guration the DDD\par
                                                                                         nodal forces and Nye\u8217?s tensor \u64257?elds were computed and the loss\par
and let the GNN model learn the resulting nodal velocity vector Vi as a                  (Nye\u8217?s tensor mismatch, Eq. (5)) was minimized by back propagation.\par
function of the estimated force F DDD\par
                                    i     and a local graph neighborhood of                    Once trained, the resulting GNN-based mobility function can be used\par
node i with nodal and edge attributes Nj and Ejk (see Methods for a detailed             to infer nodal velocities in any dislocation con\u64257?guration, including two\par
de\u64257?nition of the local graph and its attributes). So-de\u64257?ned and properly                 simple cases of in\u64257?nite edge and screw dislocations moving in response to\par
trained, the mobility function in Eq. (4) is expected to learn the unknown but           applied shear stress \u964?. Such simple exercise allows us to pick into the\par
local correction to the nodal force F corr\par
                                        i . To the extent that the correction            otherwise \u8220?black-box\u8221? trained mobility function. As shown in Fig. 2a,\par
term is indeed learnable from the ground-truth MD data and considering                   the linear mobility employed in the DDD simulations is well reproduced by\par
that nodal forces in DDD are always computed using Eq. (2), our                          the learned GNN mobility function. Linear regression on predicted stress-\par
formulation should ensure accuracy of subsequent rollout DDD                             velocity curves yields mobility coef\u64257?cients of M        ^ e \u8776?2564 \u240?Pa  s\u222?1 and\par
simulations.                                                                              ^\par
                                                                                         M s \u8776?6 \u240?Pa  s\u222?  1\par
                                                                                                               for the edge and screw dislocations, respectively, in\par
     To address uncertainty of de\u64257?ning nodal velocity vectors in the                     agreement with our-de\u64257?ned mobility parameters for pure screw and pure\par
ground-truth MD data we resort to a recently proposed sweep-tracing                      edge dislocations. A notable discrepancy in the screw mobility is likely\par
algorithm (STA)10 that deals with precisely the same uncertainty. STA                    caused by relative scarcity in the training data of instances in which screw\par
employs a dual line/\u64257?eld representation of a dislocation network to                      dislocations actually move. Under assumed extreme anisotropy of dis-\par
\u8220?reconnect\u8221? any two successive dislocation networks even when they are not               location mobility (ratio Me/Ms = 23) and initiated from 12 prismatic loops of\par
topologically isomorphic. In STA, Nye\u8217?s tensor \u64257?elds produced by two                     pure edge character, it is mostly edge and mixed dislocations that move over\par
dislocation networks are \u64257?rst computed and mapped on a static spatial grid.              the \u64257?rst 0.1 of strain covered by \u64257?ve DDD simulations while the screws\par
The task of reconnection is then de\u64257?ned as an optimization problem that                  are passively drawn while remaining largely motionless. Training on more\par
seeks to minimize a properly de\u64257?ned distance between Nye\u8217?s tensor28 \u64257?eld                 extended DDD simulations reaching strains at which screws become more\par
representations of two networks10.                                                       active, is likely to bring the learned MGNN\par
                                                                                                                                 \u952?     in closer agreement with the user-\par
     Borrowing from the STA approach, training of the GNN-based                          de\u64257?ned mobility parameter for screw dislocations.\par
mobility function MGNN \u952?    in Eq. (4) is achieved by minimizing over para-\par
meters \u952? the following loss function                                                     Training on MD trajectories\par
                                                                                         We now apply our method to learning a dislocation mobility function on\par
          XXX               g                          g                      2\par
 L\u240?\u952?\u222? \u188?                     \u945?kl r ts \u254? MGNN\par
                                        \u952?   \u916?t s ; bts  \u945?kl r ts \u254?\u916?ts ; bts \u254?\u916?ts        data from large-scale MD simulations. To illustrate the approach, here we\par
               s   g   kl                                                                focus on plasticity in body-centered-cubic (BCC) metals challenging for its\par
                                                                                   \u240?5\u222?   strong plastic anisotropy32\u8211?34 manifested in the notorious tension/com-\par
                                                                                         pression asymmetry10,35,36 and rather uncommon slip crystallography37. We\par
where the sums are over the set of training examples s, grid points g and                choose BCC tungsten as a testbed material because it is nearly elastically\par
Cartesian components of the Nye\u8217?s tensor \u64257?eld computed on the grid points                isotropic making it particularly convenient for comparisons with DDD\par
using the method introduced in29. During training, the GNN learns to                     simulations which are simpler and much more expedient to perform in an\par
predict nodal velocity vectors Vi at time ts, by best matching its predictions to        elastically isotropic crystal. For MD simulations here we employ a\par
\par
\par
npj Computational Materials | (2024)10:192                                                                                                                              3\par
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-024-01378-4                                                                                                            Article\par
\par
Fig. 2 | Stress-velocity predictions. a Velocities of\par
isolated edge and screw dislocations predicted using\par
a GNN mobility function trained on DDD trajec-\par
tories. The learned GNN model accurately repro-\par
duces linear mobilities employed in DDD\par
simulation. b Velocities of isolated edge and screw\par
dislocations predicted using a GNN mobility func-\par
tion trained on large-scale MD trajectories of BCC\par
tungsten deformed under [001] tension and com-\par
pression. The trained GNN mobility function pre-\par
dicts a non-linear force-velocity relation for the edge\par
dislocation and a strong asymmetry in the velocities\par
of screw dislocations sheared in the twinning (T)\par
and anti-twinning (AT) direction.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
computationally ef\u64257?cient inter-atomic potential (IAP) of the embedded-            DDD+ML simulations with learned mobility\par
atom (EAM) type previously developed for tungsten38 with its Zener ani-           To fully assess validity of our DDD+ML approach, we implemented\par
sotropy ratio computed at 300 K close to 1.0 at A = 2C44/(C11 \u8722? C12) = 1.15.      our learned GNN dislocation mobility function in the ParaDiS DDD\par
      We \u64257?rst perform two MD simulations with ~35 millions atoms, much            code7 via the C++ PyTorch interface. For a one-to-one comparison,\par
the same way as in the DDD validation simulations described earlier. BCC          DDD simulations were performed under conditions identical to those\par
crystals are initially seeded with prismatic dislocation loops and then           used in the ground-truth MD simulations. Cube-shaped simulation\par
deformed at 300 K under uniaxial tension and compression along the [001]          boxes with the side length 296b (here b = 0.2743 nm is the magnitude of\par
direction. Again consistent with the earlier DDD simulations, the crystals        the Burgers vector), were initially seeded with randomly positioned\par
are deformed at a true strain rate of 2 \u215? 108/s until reaching a true strain of   prismatic loops and then deformed under tension and compression\par
1.0. Consistent with our previous results for BCC tantalum10,39, the simu-        along the [001] axis at a strain rate of 2 \u215? 108/s. For consistency, the\par
lations predict a well de\u64257?ned tension/compression asymmetry, with \u64258?ow             shear modulus \u956? = 149.78 GPa, the Poisson ratio \u957? = 0.289 and\par
stress of ~4.2 GPa under compression and ~2.8 GPa under tension. During           the dislocation core terms42 have been all computed at 300 K using the\par
both runs, DXA is used to extract dislocation con\u64257?gurations at equal time         same IAP as in MD simulations38.\par
intervals of 1 ps thus producing a total of 10,000 DXA snapshots subse-                 As shown in Fig. 3, DDD predictions for \u64258?ow stress agree closely with\par
quently used to train a GNN-based mobility function as previously                 the ground-truth MD simulations. In particular, the asymmetry in \u64258?ow\par
described.                                                                        stress under tension and under compression is fully captured in the learned\par
      When initially tested in predicting velocities of isolated edge and         GNN mobility function. However, in comparison to MD, DDD under-\par
screw dislocations, the model exhibits smooth and well-behaved                    predicts dislocation densities (Fig. 3b) both under tension and under\par
functions, Fig. 2b. Velocity predicted for an edge dislocation is linearly        compression, even if asymmetry of two densities predicted in DDD is\par
proportional to stress up to ~300 MPa, followed by a non-linear regime            approximately the same as in MD. Potential sources of these discrepancies\par
reaching an asymptotic velocity of ~2000 m/s at a stress of 2 GPa.                will be discussed in the next section.\par
Qualitatively, this behavior is fully consistent with the expected                      To further test accuracy of our learned GNN mobility function, we now\par
phonon-drag controlled motion of edge dislocations14 con\u64257?rmed ear-                compare DDD and MD simulations performed under conditions never\par
lier in MD simulations of BCC metals18,40.                                        seen in training. For this purpose, we ran DDD and MD simulations under\par
      Of particular interest are velocities predicted from our learned            compression at a lower rate of 2 \u215? 107/s, an order of magnitude lower than\par
mobility function for pure screw dislocations. When shear stress is               before. To ensure that simulations at the lower rate remain statically\par
applied in the twinning (T) direction (corresponding to a MRSSP angle             representative of bulk crystal plasticity, crystals used in the MD simulations\par
\u967? = \u8722? 30o), screw velocity reveals a well-de\u64257?ned threshold stress                 were enlarged by a factor of four to ~140 millions atoms with a corre-\par
behavior characteristic of thermally-activated motion controlled by               sponding increase in the size of DDD simulation box to 470b. Stress-strain\par
kink-pair mechanisms, with very low velocity at stresses below an                 curves extracted from MD and DDD simulations are plotted side by side\par
activation threshold (\u64257?nite temperature Peierls stress) followed by a             in Fig. 4. Although our GNN dislocation mobility function was trained only\par
transition to a drag-controlled regime at higher stresses. In contrast,           on MD simulations performed under high deformation rate of 2 \u215? 108/s, the\par
when stress is applied in the anti-twinning (AT) direction (corre-                plastic \u64258?ow response predicted in the DDD+ML also agrees quantitatively\par
sponding to a MRSSP angle \u967? = + 30o), the same screw dislocation is               with the MD simulation performed at the previously unseen lower rate of\par
predicted to move at barely discernible velocities which is again fully           deformation.\par
consistent with theoretical models41 and earlier large-scale MD                         This important observation is consistent with our earlier simula-\par
simulations10. Considering that a screw dislocation in a BCC crystal has          tions based on a simpli\u64257?ed DDD system25 in which we similarly\par
a choice of three \{112\} glide\par
                            p\u64259?\u64259?planes\par
                               \u64259?       at least one of which seeing resolved      observed that a GNN model trained only at some deformation rate\par
shear stress no less than 3=2 of shear stress resolved in the MRSSP,              performs well in simulations performed at lower strain rates not seen in\par
Fig. 2b indicates that, under conditions of our MD simulations and for            training. To rationalize this observed transferability of GNN mobility\par
the IAP used in this work, glide of screw dislocations on \{112\} planes in         function to DDD simulations at lower deformation rates we note that,\par
the AT directions is essentially prohibited.                                      although the external/average \u64258?ow stress stays nearly constant in our\par
\par
\par
npj Computational Materials | (2024)10:192                                                                                                                    4\par
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-024-01378-4                                                                                                                           Article\par
\par
Fig. 3 | Large-scale DDD+ML predictions versus\par
ground-truth MD results. a Comparison of stress-\par
strain response predicted in MD and DDD simula-\par
tions of [001] tension and compression deformation\par
of BCC tungsten: the GNN dislocation mobility\par
function employed in the DDD simulation was\par
trained on the MD trajectories. MD and DDD\par
simulations are performed in simulation volumes of\par
the same size deformed under the same uniaxial\par
straining conditions at rate 2 \u215? 108/s. b Comparison\par
of dislocation density evolution in the same MD and\par
DDD simulations. Lines colors are the same as in the\par
legend in (a).\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                            Discussion\par
                                                                                            Results presented in the preceding sections demonstrate the feasibility and\par
                                                                                            accuracy of our proposed DDD+ML approach. The same results are all the\par
                                                                                            more signi\u64257?cant in comparison to traditional \u8220?hand-crafted\u8221? mobility\par
                                                                                            functions, including the ones previously developed in our group, that often\par
                                                                                            fail to satisfactorily capture salient characteristics of crystal plasticity such as\par
                                                                                            the tension/compression asymmetry or the peculiar slip crystallography in\par
                                                                                            BCC crystals. Not commonly noted in the literature, such failures come in\par
                                                                                            full display when comparing DDD predictions to predictions of MD\par
                                                                                            simulations performed under identical conditions, which is precisely the\par
                                                                                            essence of a cross-scale matching approach24 we presently pursue. Here we\par
                                                                                            take advantage of a large number of instances of dislocation motion\par
                                                                                            encountered in large-scale MD simulations of crystal plasticity to train a\par
                                                                                            machine learner to advance dislocations forward in time in a DDD simu-\par
                                                                                            lation in the same manner they move in MD. While fully accounting for\par
                                                                                            known physics in a data-driven fashion, the GNN learns on local network\par
                                                                                            con\u64257?gurations to predict corrections to dislocation motion that are other-\par
Fig. 4 | Comparison of stress-strain response predicted in MD and DDD simu-                 wise dif\u64257?cult if not impossible to evaluate. Once incorporated in a DDD\par
lations of [001] compression at rates 2 \u215? 108/s and 2 \u215? 107/s. Although the GNN             model, our learned mobility function accurately describes complex motion\par
mobility function was trained only on 2 \u215? 108/s trajectories (red), it correctly predicts   of dislocations in a variety of local con\u64257?gurations and stress states resulting\par
the \u64258?ow stress at the lower straining rate of 2 \u215? 107/s (green). Evolution of dislocation   in strongly anisotropic plasticity response of BCC metals33,34,43,44. Through\par
densities predicted at the lower straining rate is shown in the inset.                      observing a large number of examples during training, the GNN also learns\par
                                                                                            to predict motion of isolated dislocations for which it predicts smooth stress-\par
                                                                                            velocity relations in close agreement with existing theory, e.g., see Fig. 2b.\par
                                                                                                   Of particular interest is that, once trained, our GNN mobility function\par
ground-truth training MD simulations, in the course of the same                             encodes information about slip crystallography without any prior\par
simulations dislocations experience a much wider range of stress                            assumption about planes in which dislocations should prefer to glide, a still\par
conditions. Indeed, additional analysis of stress variations in simula-                     contentious issue in BCC metal plasticity37. This is in contrast to previous\par
tion volumes of our MD training set shows that local stress (sum of                         work in which a \u64257?xed set of glide planes and a certain functional form of the\par
average external stress and internal stress due to elastic interactions                     dislocation mobility function are assumed a priori14,16. At present when\par
among dislocations) varies widely, from well above to well below the                        physics of dislocation motion is not yet fully understood, imposing any such\par
average stress. Accordingly, mechanical forces seen at any given time by                    a priori constraints may prove detrimental to \u64257?delity of DDD simulations.\par
many dislocations in the network can be low, as manifested in our                                  In our \u64257?rst application of the DDD+ML approach, we nevertheless\par
previously documented observation that a large faction of dislocation                       observe discrepancies in DDD predictions compared to the ground-truth\par
segments move little or not at all from one DXA snapshot to the next10.                     MD simulations. While under compression DDD and MD predictions for\par
Instances when mechanical driving force on a dislocation is low become                      \u64258?ow stress agree within statistical uncertainty, \u64258?ow stress under tension is\par
increasingly common with decreasing deformation rates, but even at                          slightly under-predicted in DDD. Yet the most notable discrepancy is found\par
the high rates of our training MD simulations they occur suf\u64257?ciently                        in the evolution of dislocation densities that are under-predicted in DDD by\par
frequently for the GNN to learn on. We leave it to future work to further                   about 50% both under tension and under compression. Additional work is\par
examine accuracy and transferability of our ML-learned dislocation                          required to establish what causes these discrepancies, but several sources\par
mobility function across a wider range of deformation conditions.                           appear plausible and worth further examination.\par
\par
\par
npj Computational Materials | (2024)10:192                                                                                                                                    5\par
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-024-01378-4                                                                                                                    Article\par
\par
      One plausible source of discrepancies in dislocation multiplication is            In summary, we propose a data centered approach to constructing\par
that in DDD dislocation networks evolve not only via the motion of dis-            DDD mobility functions in which a GNN model is trained on large-scale\par
location nodes or segments, but also through a sequence of topological             MD data. Training is achieved by minimizing DDD prediction loss for the\par
transformations, e.g., dislocation collisions, junction zipping and unzipping      next state of dislocation network conditioned on mechanical forces com-\par
and such. Although taking place both in MD and DDD, DDD models are                 puted for the previous state using standard DDD equations. To circumvent\par
never really informed how such topological events take place in MD but rely        uncertainties in comparing generally non-isomorphic graphs, dislocation\par
instead on plausible and yet to be validated theoretical arguments such as         networks are mapped on a regular grid using a continuous Nye\u8217?s tensor \u64257?eld\par
maximum power dissipation7. Furthermore, in mapping dislocation line               representation. To test our new approach on a complex case of crystal\par
networks on a regular grid and comparing them on the basis of their con-           plasticity in BCC tungsten, we ran DDD simulations using a GNN dis-\par
tinuous Nye\u8217?s \u64257?eld representations, as was done in training the GNN                location mobility function trained on ground-truth MD simulations. The\par
mobility function, any topological events taking place between two con-            resulting DDD predictions match MD simulation used in training as well as\par
secutive DXA snapshots are integrated over and lost. Thus, strictly speaking,      MD simulations performed under previously unseen deformation condi-\par
the GNN only learns how to advance the Nye\u8217?s \u64257?eld on the grid while never          tions. We believe our data-driven approach to constructing dislocation\par
learning to perform topological transformations in the dislocation line            mobility functions is a promising avenue for improving prediction \u64257?delity of\par
network the way they take place in MD. We suspect that, in not matching            the DDD method.\par
MD on topological events, DDD can not match MD on dislocation mul-\par
tiplication. Exactly where and how dislocations multiply in a massive MD           Methods\par
simulation remains an important open question for future studies.                  GNN mobility law\par
      We also note that the resulting dislocation behaviors captured in our        We model the mobility law in Eq. (4) with a message-passing GNN47, which\par
trained GNN mobility is naturally tied to the choice of IAP used to generate       has proved very powerful for predicting force \u64257?elds48\u8211?51, defect-properties\par
the ground-truth MD data. For instance, Finnis-Sinclair style potentials           linkage52, fracture mechanics53, polycrystal properties54,55, and for simulating\par
such as that used to model W in this work38 are known to predict degenerate        complex physics56.\par
screw core structures44, which may affect predictions of slip crystallography           Following our recent work on applying GNN to a simpli\u64257?ed model of\par
in the ground-truth MD trajectories. Yet, we emphasize that our primary            DDD simulations25, a dislocation con\u64257?guration is represented by a graph\par
objective here is to develop a generic framework capable of accurately             G \u188? \u240?V; E\u222?, where V \u188? fN i g is a collection of dislocation node/vertex fea-\par
capturing details of dislocation motion as seen in the ground-truth data,          tures (attributes), and E \u188? fEij g is a collection of dislocation segment/edge\par
agnostic to the quality of the ground-truth data itself. Should a more             features. We de\u64257?ne the input features for each node i as\par
accurate IAP be employed for generating training data, our DDD+ML                                                                       \par
work\u64258?ow should be able to learn the resulting dislocation motion equally                                     N i \u188? ni ; F DDD ; k F DDD k                         \u240?7\u222?\par
well. It is also possible that advanced techniques of transfer-learning may be\par
used in the future to \u64257?ne-tune GNN mobilities initially trained on \u8221?cheap\u8221?         where ni is a \u64258?ag used to specify whether node i is a discretization or physical\par
IAPs to learn dislocation behaviors from higher-\u64257?delity IAPs, requiring only       (junction) node. The input edge features on edge ij are\par
minimal additional training data. Furthermore, coupling of the model with a\par
physics-informed neural networks (PINN)45 approach may provide a path                                Eij \u188? \u240?eij ; bij ; k bij k; r j  r i ; k r j  r i k\u222?       \u240?8\u222?\par
to improve the accuracy and generalizability of the proposed approach in\par
the future.                                                                        where eij is a \u64258?ag used to specify whether segment ij is a glissile or junction\par
      As a coarse-grained model, DDD simulations are typically orders of           segment, and rj \u8722? ri are the local segments line vectors, naturally compatible\par
magnitude faster to perform than MD simulations under identical condi-             with the use of periodic boundary conditions. To satisfy Burgers vector\par
tions. Although requiring more calculations than the traditional hand-             conservation, we use a directed graph, i.e. if ij is an edge with Burgers vector\par
crafted mobility functions, our trained GNN mobility function still comes at       bij, then ji is also an edge but with opposite Burgers vector \u8722? bij.\par
a negligible computational cost compared to force calculations. Considering               Our GNN architecture follows57 and is \u64257?rst composed of vertex and\par
simulations reported in Fig. 3 (at 2 \u215? 108/s), an MD simulation requires           edge encoders ENCV, ENCE transforming concatenated input features into a\par
~ 10, 000 CPU-hours (using a cheap EAM IAP), compared to ~ 10 \u8722? 20                 latent space\par
CPU-hours needed to complete a DDD simulation performed under\par
identical conditions. The speedup of DDD over MD is only going to grow                                 v\u240?0\u222?              \u240?0\u222?\par
                                                                                                        i \u188? ENC \u240?N i \u222?; eij \u188? ENC \u240?E ij \u222?;\par
                                                                                                               V                 E\par
                                                                                                                                                                  \u240?9\u222?\par
larger with more sophisticated IAPs and decreasing deformation rates\par
where, in addition to its considerably longer time steps, DDD remains              followed by K stacked message passing layersf E(k), f V(k) (1 \u8804? k \u8804? K) sequen-\par
ef\u64257?cient in much larger simulation volumes (e.g. several \u956?m) that are pre-         tially updating the latent vertex and edge variables\par
sently out-of-reach for MD simulations.\par
      Finally, as a \u64257?rst application here we demonstrate our ML-DDD fra-                                  e\u240?k\u222?\par
                                                                                                           ij \u188? f\par
                                                                                                                  E\u240?k\u222? \u240?k1\u222? \u240?k1\u222? \u240?k1\u222?\par
                                                                                                                      \u240?eij ; vi   ; vj   \u222?;                      \u240?10\u222?\par
mework on BCC crystals in which dislocation cores are compact. To extend\par
our approach to FCC and HCP crystals where dislocations dissociate into                                                                             !\par
                                                                                                                                         X\par
partials, we envision two possible paths depending on the material. For                                    v\u240?k\u222?\par
                                                                                                            i     \u188?f   V\u240?k\u222?\par
                                                                                                                              v\u240?k1\u222?\par
                                                                                                                               i     ;       e\u240?k\u222?\par
                                                                                                                                              ij    ;            \u240?11\u222?\par
crystals with high stacking-fault energy (SFE), a possible approach would be                                                             j\par
to constrain DXA to extract only the complete dislocations, learn a mobility\par
function on the resulting DXA snapshots and use it in subsequent DDD               and \u64257?nally a node decoder DEC that translates the latent node variables v (K)\par
simulations of the same material. For low SFE crystals in which two partials       into the desired output properties, i.e. nodal velocity vectors:\par
may move far apart, pairing the partials into complete dislocations may not                                                 \par
be physically justi\u64257?able or even possible. Here a more suitable approach                                          V i \u188? DEC vi\u240?K\u222? :                              \u240?12\u222?\par
would be to learn mobility of the partial dislocations and use it in a DDD\par
model resolving the partials46. Extension of the framework to more complex\par
materials and material microstructures (e.g. irradiated materials, impurities,     Functions ENCV, ENCE, f V, f E, and DEC are neural network operators built\par
etc.) should also be possible in the future, e.g., by conditioning the local GNN   from multi-layer perceptrons with two hidden layers, layer normalization58,\par
mobility function on the presence of other types of crystal defects.               skip connections59, and GELU activation functions60.\par
\par
\par
\par
npj Computational Materials | (2024)10:192                                                                                                                          6\par
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-024-01378-4                                                                                                                   Article\par
\par
MD simulations                                                                       4.    Schwarz, K. Simulation of dislocations on the mesoscopic scale. i.\par
Large-scale MD simulations of BCC tungsten are performed with                              methods and examples. J. Appl. Phys. 85, 108\u8211?119 (1999).\par
LAMMPS61 under the Kokkos GPU implementation62, using the EAM-style                  5.    Ghoniem, N. A. M., Tong, S.-H. & Sun, L. Parametric dislocation\par
IAP developed in ref. 38. Simulations are performed following the protocol                 dynamics: a thermodynamics-based approach to investigations of\par
introduced in ref. 8. Periodic, orthorombic BCC perfect crystals are initially             mesoscopic plastic deformation. Phys. Rev. B 61, 913 (2000).\par
seeded with twelve 1/2\u9001?111\u9002?\{110\} prismatic loops of the vacancy type. The            6.    Weygand, D., Friedman, L., Van der Giessen, E. & Needleman, A.\par
crystals are \u64257?rst equilibrated at the temperature of 300 K, after which they               Aspects of boundary-value problem solutions with three-dimensional\par
are deformed at a constant true strain rate. Temperature and uniaxial                      dislocation dynamics. Model. Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 10, 437 (2002).\par
loading conditions are maintained during deformation using the langevin              7.    Arsenlis, A. et al. Enabling strain hardening simulations with\par
thermostat and the nph barostat. For the ~ 35 millions atoms simulations                   dislocation dynamics. Model. Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 15,\par
deformed at a rate of 2 \u215? 108/s, DXA27 is executed every 1 ps to save the                  553\u8211?595 (2007).\par
detailed evolution of the dislocation networks.                                      8.    Zepeda-Ruiz, L. A., Stukowski, A., Oppelstrup, T. & Bulatov, V. V.\par
                                                                                           Probing the limits of metal plasticity with molecular dynamics\par
Mobility work\u64258?ow and training                                                              simulations. Nature 550, 492\u8211?495 (2017).\par
DXA con\u64257?gurations produced in the MD simulations are \u64257?rst converted to               9.    Zepeda-Ruiz, L. A. et al. Atomistic insights into metal hardening. Nat.\par
the ParaDiS format7. For consistency, during this operation the line net-                  Mater. 20, 315\u8211?320 (2021).\par
works are also remeshed with discretization size of ~ 10b, corresponding to          10.   Bertin, N., Zepeda-Ruiz, L. & Bulatov, V. Sweep-tracing algorithm: in\par
the average segment size used in our DDD simulations.                                      silico slip crystallography and tension-compression asymmetry in bcc\par
       The so-converted dislocation con\u64257?gurations fGts g are then fed to the               metals. Mater. Theory 6, 1\u8211?23 (2022).\par
                                                                           app\par
ParaDiS code to compute nodal forces, Eq. (2). Applied forces F i are                11.   Stimac, J. C., Bertin, N., Mason, J. K. & Bulatov, V. V. Energy storage\par
computed by integrating the Peach-Koehler force \u240?\u963?  bij \u222? \u215? t ij along the\par
                                                          ts\par
                                                                                           under high-rate compression of single crystal tantalum. Acta\par
dislocation segments ij with unit tangent tij, where \u963? ts is the instantaneous             Materialia 239, 118253 (2022).\par
stress applied to network Gts at time ts as recorded during the MD runs.             12.   Monnet, G. & Terentyev, D. Structure and mobility of the 12\u9001?111\u9002?\{112\}\par
Long-range interaction forces F lri are computed using DDD-FFT approach                    edge dislocation in bcc iron studied by molecular dynamics. Acta\par
introduced in ref. 29 which can easily handle non-cubic, deforming simu-                   Materialia 57, 1416\u8211?1426 (2009).\par
lation boxes as produced by MD simulations. Short-range interaction forces           13.   Kang, K., Bulatov, V. V. & Cai, W. Singular orientations and faceted\par
F sri are computed using the non-singular isotropic analytical formulation63.              motion of dislocations in body-centered cubic crystals. Proc. Natl\par
Core forces F core\par
                 i  are computed from core energies extracted from the                     Acad. Sci. 109, 15174\u8211?15178 (2012).\par
ground-truth IAP38 using the framework developed in ref. 42.                         14.   Po, G. et al. A phenomenological dislocation mobility law for bcc\par
       The networks containing nodal forces are then used as inputs to                     metals. Acta Materialia 119, 123\u8211?135 (2016).\par
our training procedure implemented within PyTorch30. To facilitate                   15.   Geslin, P.-A. & Rodney, D. Thermal \u64258?uctuations of dislocations reveal\par
training, input forces are rescaled by a factor 109Pa \u8901? b2 so that their                   the interplay between their core energy and long-range elasticity.\par
average magnitude is on the order of unity. The loss function, Eq. (5), is                 Phys. Rev. B 98, 174115 (2018).\par
computed by evaluating the Nye\u8217?s tensor on a grid of 323 voxels using a              16.   Wang, Z. & Beyerlein, I. An atomistically-informed dislocation\par
fully vectorized implementation of the discrete-to-continuous method                       dynamics model for the plastic anisotropy and tension\u8211?compression\par
introduced in ref. 29.                                                                     asymmetry of bcc metals. Int. J. Plasticity 27, 1471\u8211?1484 (2011).\par
       We trained different GNN models to explore different sets of hyper-           17.   Srivastava, K., Gr\u246?ger, R., Weygand, D. & Gumbsch, P. Dislocation\par
parameters. We tested a combination of models with K = \{2, 3\} message-                     motion in tungsten: atomistic input to discrete dislocation\par
passing layers each with latent space of size L = \{48, 96\}, leading to 4 different         simulations. Int. J. Plasticity 47, 126\u8211?142 (2013).\par
trained models. The models were trained using the AdamW optimizer with               18.   Chang, J., Cai, W., Bulatov, V. V. & Yip, S. Dislocation motion in bcc\par
weight decay of 1 \u215? 10\u8722?564. Training was performed for 12 hours with batch                 metals by molecular dynamics. Mater. Sci. Eng.: A 309,\par
size of 4 on a single NVidia V100 GPU. We \u64257?nd that the GNN model with                      160\u8211?163 (2001).\par
K = 3 and L = 48 offers the best trade-off between accuracy and complexity           19.   Olmsted, D. L., Hector, L. G., Curtin, W. & Clifton, R. Atomistic\par
(78,768 total parameters) while showing no sign of ove\u64257?tting. We thus                      simulations of dislocation mobility in Al, Ni and Al/Mg alloys. Model.\par
selected it as the best model for results presented in this work.                          Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 13, 371 (2005).\par
                                                                                     20.   Queyreau, S., Marian, J., Gilbert, M. & Wirth, B. Edge dislocation\par
Data availability                                                                          mobilities in bcc Fe obtained by molecular dynamics. Phys. Rev. B 84,\par
The datasets used and analysed during the current study are available from                 064106 (2011).\par
the corresponding author on reasonable request.                                      21.   Cereceda, D. et al. Assessment of interatomic potentials for atomistic\par
                                                                                           analysis of static and dynamic properties of screw dislocations in W. J.\par
Code availability                                                                          Phys.: Condens. Matter 25, 085702 (2013).\par
The code used in the current study will be made available in an open-source          22.   Cho, J., Molinari, J.-F. & Anciaux, G. Mobility law of dislocations with\par
repository.                                                                                several character angles and temperatures in fcc aluminum. Int. J.\par
                                                                                           Plasticity 90, 66\u8211?75 (2017).\par
Received: 25 March 2024; Accepted: 4 August 2024;                                    23.   Bertin, N., Sills, R. B. & Cai, W. Frontiers in the simulation of\par
                                                                                           dislocations. Annu. Rev. Mater. Res. 50, 437\u8211?464 (2020).\par
                                                                                     24.   Bertin, N., Cai, W., Aubry, S., Arsenlis, A. & Bulatov, V. V. Enhanced\par
References                                                                                 mobility of dislocation network nodes and its effect on dislocation\par
1.   Kubin, L. P. et al. Dislocation microstructures and plastic \u64258?ow: a 3D                 multiplication and strain hardening. Acta Materialia 271,\par
     simulation. Solid state Phenom. 23, 455\u8211?472 (1992).                                   119884 (2024).\par
2.   Zbib, H. M., Rhee, M. & Hirth, J. P. On plastic deformation and the             25.   Bertin, N. & Zhou, F. Accelerating discrete dislocation dynamics simulations\par
     dynamics of 3D dislocations. Int. J. Mech. Sci. 40, 113\u8211?127 (1998).                   with graph neural networks. J. Comput. Phys. 487, 112180 (2023).\par
3.   Bulatov, V., Abraham, F. F., Kubin, L., Devincre, B. & Yip, S.                  26.   Stukowski, A. & Albe, K. Extracting dislocations and non-dislocation\par
     Connecting atomistic and mesoscale simulations of crystal plasticity.                 crystal defects from atomistic simulation data. Model. Simul. Mater.\par
     Nature 391, 669\u8211?672 (1998).                                                           Sci. Eng. 18, 085001 (2010).\par
\par
\par
npj Computational Materials | (2024)10:192                                                                                                                           7\par
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-024-01378-4                                                                                                            Article\par
\par
27. Stukowski, A. A triangulation-based method to identify dislocations in       52. Yang, Z. & Buehler, M. J. Linking atomic structural defects to\par
    atomistic models. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 70, 314\u8211?319 (2014).                      mesoscale properties in crystalline solids using graph neural\par
28. Nye, J. Some geometrical relations in dislocated crystals. Acta Metall.          networks. Npj Comput. Mater. 8, 198 (2022).\par
    1, 153\u8211?162 (1953).                                                           53. Perera, R., Guzzetti, D. & Agrawal, V. Graph neural networks for\par
29. Bertin, N. Connecting discrete and continuum dislocation mechanics: A            simulating crack coalescence and propagation in brittle materials.\par
    non-singular spectral framework. Int. J. Plasticity 122, 268\u8211?284 (2019).         Computer Methods Appl. Mech. Eng. 395, 115021 (2022).\par
30. Paszke, A. et al. Pytorch: An imperative style, high-performance deep        54. Dai, M., Demirel, M. F., Liang, Y. & Hu, J.-M. Graph neural networks for\par
    learning library, in: Advances in Neural Information Processing                  an accurate and interpretable prediction of the properties of\par
    Systems 32, Curran Associates, Inc., 2019, pp. 8024\u8211?8035.                        polycrystalline materials. npj Comput. Mater. 7, 103 (2021).\par
31. Cai, W. & Bulatov, V. V. Mobility laws in dislocation dynamics               55. Hestroffer, J. M., Charpagne, M.-A., Latypov, M. I. & Beyerlein, I. J.\par
    simulations. Mater. Sci. Eng.: A 387, 277\u8211?281 (2004).                            Graph neural networks for ef\u64257?cient learning of mechanical properties\par
32. Christian, J. Some surprising features of the plastic deformation of             of polycrystals. Comput. Mater. Sci. 217, 111894 (2023).\par
    body-centered cubic metals and alloys. Metall. Trans. A 14,                  56. Sanchez-Gonzalez, A. et al. Learning to simulate complex physics\par
    1237\u8211?1256 (1983).                                                                with graph networks, in: International Conference on Machine\par
33. Duesbery, Ma-S. & Vitek, V. Plastic anisotropy in bcc transition                 Learning, PMLR, 2020, pp. 8459\u8211?8468.\par
    metals. Acta Materialia 46, 1481\u8211?1492 (1998).                                57. Pfaff, T., Fortunato, M., Sanchez-Gonzalez, A., Battaglia, P. W.\par
34. Dezerald, L., Rodney, D., Clouet, E., Ventelon, L. & Willaime, F. Plastic        Learning mesh-based simulation with graph networks. http://arxiv.\par
    anisotropy and dislocation trajectory in bcc metals. Nat. Commun. 7,             org/abs/2010.03409 (2020).\par
    11695 (2016).                                                                58. Ba, J. L., Kiros, J. R., Hinton, G. E. Layer normalization. http://arxiv.\par
35. Sherwood, P., Guiu, F., Kim, H. C. & Pratt, P. L. Plastic anisotropy of          org/abs/1607.06450 (2016).\par
    tantalum, niobium, and molybdenum. Can. J. Phys. 45, 1075\u8211?1089 (1967).       59. He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., Sun, J. Deep residual learning for image\par
36. Webb, G. L., Gibala, R. & Mitchell, T. E. Effect of normal stress on yield       recognition. http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385 (2015).\par
    asymmetry in high purity tantalum crystals. Metall. Trans. 5,                60. Hendrycks, D., Gimpel, K. Gaussian error linear units (GELUs). http://\par
    1581\u8211?1584 (1974).                                                                arxiv.org/abs/1606.08415 (2016).\par
37. Weinberger, C. R., Boyce, B. L. & Battaile, C. C. Slip planes in bcc         61. Thompson, A. P. et al. Lammps-a \u64258?exible simulation tool for particle-\par
    transition metals. Int. Mater. Rev. 58, 296\u8211?314 (2013).                          based materials modeling at the atomic, meso, and, continuum\par
38. Juslin, N. & Wirth, B. Interatomic potentials for simulation of he bubble        scales. Computer Phys. Commun. 271, 108171 (2022).\par
    formation in W. J. Nucl. Mater. 432, 61\u8211?66 (2013).                           62. Edwards, H. C., Trott, C. R. & Sunderland, D. Kokkos: Enabling\par
39. Bertin, N., Carson, R., Bulatov, V. V., Lind, J. & Nelms, M. Crystal             manycore performance portability through polymorphic memory\par
    plasticity model of bcc metals from large-scale MD simulations. Acta             access patterns. J. Parallel Distrib. Comput. 74, 3202\u8211?3216 (2014).\par
    Materialia 260, 119336 (2023).                                               63. Cai, W., Arsenlis, A., Weinberger, C. R. & Bulatov, V. V. A non-singular\par
40. Osetsky, Y. N. & Bacon, D. J. An atomic-level model for studying the             continuum theory of dislocations. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 54, 561\u8211?587 (2006).\par
    dynamics of edge dislocations in metals. Model. Simul. Mater. Sci.           64. Loshchilov, I., Hutter, F. Decoupled weight decay regularization.\par
    Eng. 11, 427 (2003).                                                             http://arxiv.org/abs/1711.05101 (2017).\par
41. Edagawa, K., Suzuki, T. & Takeuchi, S. Motion of a screw dislocation\par
    in a two-dimensional Peierls potential. Phys. Rev. B 55, 6180 (1997).        Acknowledgements\par
42. Bertin, N., Cai, W., Aubry, S. & Bulatov, V. Core energies of                NB and VB acknowledge support by the Laboratory Directed Research and\par
    dislocations in bcc metals. Phys. Rev. Mater. 5, 025002 (2021).              Development (LDRD) program (22-ERD-016) and by the ASC PEM program at\par
43. Ito, K. & Vitek, V. Atomistic study of non-Schmid effects in the plastic     Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL). FZ was supported by the\par
    yielding of bcc metals. Philos. Mag. A 81, 1387\u8211?1407 (2001).                 Critical Materials Innovation Hub, an Energy Innovation Hub funded by the\par
44. Vitek, V. Core structure of screw dislocations in body-centred cubic         U.S. Department of Energy, Of\u64257?ce of Energy Ef\u64257?ciency and Renewable\par
    metals: relation to symmetry and interatomic bonding. Philos. Mag.           Energy, and Advanced Materials and Manufacturing Technologies Of\u64257?ce.\par
    84, 415\u8211?428 (2004).                                                          Computing support for this work came from LLNL Institutional Computing\par
45. Raissi, M., Perdikaris, P. & Karniadakis, G. E. Physics-informed neural      Grand Challenge program. This work was performed under the auspices of the\par
    networks: A deep learning framework for solving forward and inverse          U.S. Department of Energy by LLNL under contract DE-AC52-07NA27344.\par
    problems involving nonlinear partial differential equations. J. Comput.\par
    Phys. 378, 686\u8211?707 (2019).                                                   Author contributions\par
46. Martinez, E., Marian, J., Arsenlis, A., Victoria, M. & Perlado, J. M.        N.B. developed the method, performed the simulations, and trained the\par
    Atomistically informed dislocation dynamics in fcc crystals. J. Mech.        model. N.B. and F.Z. implemented the model. N.B. and V.B. analyzed the\par
    Phys. Solids 56, 869\u8211?895 (2008).                                             results and wrote the manuscript. All authors read and approved the \u64257?nal\par
47. Battaglia, P. W. et al. Relational inductive biases, deep learning, and      manuscript.\par
    graph networks. http://arxiv.org/abs/1806.01261.(2018).\par
48. Gilmer, J., Schoenholz, S. S., Riley., P. F., Vinyals, O., Dahl, G. E.       Competing interests\par
    Neural message passing for quantum chemistry, in: International              The authors declare no competing interests.\par
    conference on machine learning, PMLR, 2017, pp. 1263\u8211?1272.\par
49. Chen, C., Ye, W., Zuo, Y., Zheng, C. & Ong, S. P. Graph Networks as a        Additional information\par
    Universal Machine Learning Framework for Molecules and Crystals.             Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to\par
    Chem. Mater. 31, 3564 (2018).                                                Nicolas Bertin.\par
50. Park, C. W. et al. Accurate and scalable graph neural network force\par
    \u64257?eld and molecular dynamics with direct force architecture. npj              Reprints and permissions information is available at\par
    Comput. Mater. 7, 73 (2021).                                                 http://www.nature.com/reprints\par
51. Batzner, S. et al. E(3)-equivariant graph neural networks for data-\par
    ef\u64257?cient and accurate interatomic potentials. Nat. Commun. 13,               Publisher\u8217?s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional\par
    2453 (2022).                                                                 claims in published maps and institutional af\u64257?liations.\par
\par
\par
\par
npj Computational Materials | (2024)10:192                                                                                                                    8\par
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-024-01378-4                                          Article\par
\par
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons\par
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License,\par
which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and\par
reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate\par
credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative\par
Commons licence, and indicate if you modi\u64257?ed the licensed material. You\par
do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material\par
derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party\par
material in this article are included in the article\u8217?s Creative Commons\par
licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material\par
is not included in the article\u8217?s Creative Commons licence and your intended\par
use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use,\par
you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To\par
view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-\par
nc-nd/4.0/.\par
\par
\u169? The Author(s) 2024\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
npj Computational Materials | (2024)10:192                                                9\par

}