{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
                  ARTICLE\par
                  https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7               OPEN\par
\par
                  Point-defect avalanches mediate grain boundary\par
                  diffusion\par
                  Ian Chesser         1\u9993?   & Yuri Mishin         1\u9993?\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  Grain boundary diffusion in polycrystalline materials is a physical phenomenon of great\par
                  fundamental interest and practical signi\u64257?cance. Although accelerated atomic transport along\par
                  grain boundaries has been known for decades, atomic-level understanding of diffusion\par
                  mechanisms remains poor. Previous atomistic simulations focused on low temperatures\par
                  where the grain boundary structure is ordered or high temperatures where it is highly dis-\par
1234567890():,;\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  ordered. Here, we conduct molecular dynamics simulations of grain boundary diffusion at\par
                  intermediate temperatures most relevant to applications. A surprising result of this work is\par
                  the observation of intermittent GB diffusion behavior and its strong system-size dependence\par
                  unseen in previous work. Both effects are found to originate from thermally activated point-\par
                  defect avalanches. We identify the length and time scales of the avalanches and link their\par
                  formation to dynamic heterogeneity in partially disordered systems. Our \u64257?ndings have\par
                  implications for future computer modeling of grain boundary diffusion and mass transport in\par
                  nano-scale materials.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  1 Department   of Physics and Astronomy, MSN 3F3, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA 22030, USA. \u9993?email: ichesser@gmu.edu; ymishin@gmu.edu\par
\par
                  COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | (2022)3:90 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7 | www.nature.com/commsmat                                   1\par
ARTICLE                                                           COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
M\par
            ost technological materials are composed of differently         Table 1 Crystallography and 0 K energies of Al GBs.\par
            oriented crystallites (grains) separated by a network of\par
            grain boundaries (GBs)1. Atomic transport along GBs is\par
                                                                            GB description                   x                   y                  z               \u947? (mJ/\par
known to be much faster than in the perfect lattice2. This short-\par
                                                                                                                                                                    m2)\par
circuit GB diffusion controls many processes in structural and\par
functional materials, including microstructure development,                 \u931?3 h110i tilt 70.5\u8728?              [ \u8722? 1, 1, 1]        [0, 1, \u8722? 1]        [2, 1, 1]       418\par
                                                                                                             [1, \u8722? 1, \u8722? 1]       [0, \u8722? 1, 1]        [2, 1, 1]\par
phase transformations, and high-temperature modes of plastic\par
                                                                            \u931?17 h100i tilt 61.9\u8728?             [5, \u8722? 3, 0]         [0, 0, \u8722? 1]        [3, 5, 0]       488\par
deformation and fracture1,2. In addition to the practical sig-                                               [ \u8722? 5, 3, 0]        [0, 0, 1]          [3, 5, 0]\par
ni\u64257?cance, GB diffusion is a phenomenon of great fundamental                 \u931?85 \{100\} twist 8.8\u8728?             [ \u8722? 1, 13, 0]       [13, 1, 0]         [0, 0, 1]       306\par
interest. Being in a frustrated state squeezed between misoriented                                           [1, 13, 0]          [ \u8722? 13, 1, 0]      [0, 0, 1]\par
crystals, the quasi-two-dimensional GB structure represents a               HAAI \{100\}\u8739?\u8739?\{111\}                [1, 1, 0]           [1, \u8722? 1, 0]        [0, 0, 1]       306\par
unique state of matter transitional between ordered and dis-                                                 [1, 1, \u8722? 2]         [1, \u8722? 1, 0]        [1, 1, 1]\par
ordered. Due to this structural complexity, the current under-\par
                                                                            The Cartesian x, y and z axes are aligned with edges of the rectangular simulation box. The GB\par
standing of GB diffusion mechanisms remains very limited.                   plane is normal to the z-direction. For each GB, the two lines indicate crystallographic directions\par
Experiments can only measure numerical values of GB diffusion               parallel to the Cartesian axes in the upper and lower grain. The GB energy (\u947?) was computed\par
                                                                            with the interatomic potential from Ref. 15.\par
coef\u64257?cients but provide little information about the microscopic\par
mechanisms. Hence, practically all existing knowledge about GB\par
diffusion mechanisms comes from atomistic computer                            Four different GBs were selected for this study (Table 1). These\par
simulations3.                                                              four boundaries represent diverse GB crystallographies, symme-\par
   Previous simulations have only addressed two limiting cases of          tries, and atomic structures. The primary material considered is\par
relatively low and relatively high temperatures. It is now estab-          Face Centered Cubic (FCC) Al, though main results are repro-\par
lished that at low temperatures (T \u8810? Tm, where Tm is the melting           duced in FCC Ni and Body Centered Cubic (BCC) Fe GBs. Most\par
point), GBs support both vacancies and interstitials, which can            of the results reported below are for the \u931?3 and \u931?17 GBs, with\par
exist in a variety of structural forms, have strongly site-dependent       two remaining boundaries left for cross-checking. We note that\par
but on average lower formation energies than in the lattice, and           both the \u931?3 incoherent twin GB and the high-angle asymmetric\par
can contribute equally to GB diffusion4\u8211?7. GB atoms can diffuse            incommensurate (HAAI boundary) have relatively low energies\par
by a variety of different but predominantly collective mechan-             and are common in polycrystalline Al14. To model GB diffusion,\par
isms, typically in the form of a chain of highly coordinated dis-          we use classical molecular dynamics (MD) with atomic interac-\par
placements that can be open-ended (string) or looped (ring). In            tions described with the interatomic potential15 referred to as Al-\par
the other limit, when temperature approaches the bulk melting              M. To demonstrate that our results are not a speci\u64257?c feature of a\par
point, the GB structure becomes highly disordered. Some GBs                particular potential, some of the simulations are repeated with\par
premelt by transforming into a liquid-like layer near Tm6\u8211?8. The           two other Al potentials. In all cases, the results are well-consistent\par
notion of individual point defects breaks down, but the diffusion          with those obtained with the Al-M potential for the \u931?3 and \u931?17\par
mechanisms remain collective and closely resemble those in                 GBs, con\u64257?rming the robustness of our conclusions.\par
disordered bulk systems such as supercooled liquids, glasses,\par
superheated crystals and crystalline super-ionic materials9\u8211?13.            Results\par
Accordingly, the statistical methods developed for the char-               0 K GB structure. The \u931?3 and \u931?17 GB structures optimized\par
acterization of atomic dynamics in disordered bulk systems were            with the Al-M potential are shown in Fig. 1a, b. The GB con-\par
successfully applied to study diffusion mechanisms in disordered           struction and optimization protocol is explained in the Methods\par
GBs7,8. Such studies revealed a remarkable similarity between the          section. The \u931?3 GB, also known as incoherent twin boundary,\par
two types of systems, including the existence of string-like dif-          comprises asymmetric kite-shaped structural units. This struc-\par
fusion mechanisms and the dynamic heterogeneity occurring on               ture closely matches the high-resolution transmission electron\par
multiple length and time scales.                                           microscopy observations16,17 and prior simulations18. Its\par
   Little is known about GB diffusion mechanisms at intermediate           asymmetry arises from a small shift of the upper grain relative\par
temperatures, at which the GB structure is not liquid-like but             to the lower along the h111i axis (x-direction in the sample\par
rather retains a signi\u64257?cant degree of structural order. It is pre-         frame), whose magnitude (0.7 A) is close to the experimental\par
sently unknown if the concepts of dynamic heterogeneity and                value (0.66 \u177? 0.07A)17). This boundary also has a symmetric\par
dynamic facilitation developed for disordered systems can be               structure (zero shift)17,19, but the latter has a higher energy. We\par
applied to such boundaries. If they can, the length and time scales        thus use the asymmetric structure for the diffusion simulations.\par
involved in the heterogeneous dynamics remain unexplored. It               The \u931?17 GB has a zig-zag structure with the kite-unit spacing\par
should also be noted that the intermediate temperatures are more           (0.59 nm) and energy consistent with prior simulations20. This\par
relevant to the service conditions of many technological materials         boundary was previously used to study premelting diffusion\par
than the two limiting cases mentioned above.                               mechanisms in copper7.\par
   This work aims to \u64257?ll this knowledge gap by studying the\par
diffusion mechanisms in metallic GBs at intermediate tem-\par
peratures. A surprising outcome of the study is the observation            Diffusion coef\u64257?cients. Self-diffusion coef\u64257?cients in the \u931?3 and\par
of a strongly intermittent diffusion behavior and its system-size          \u931?17 GBs were extracted from MD trajectories using the Einstein\par
dependence unseen in previous work. We show that both                      relation as detailed in Methods. The results are summarized in the\par
effects originate from an intermittent, avalanche-type genera-             Arrhenius diagram in Fig. 1c. For comparison, the diagram also\par
tion of point defects causing spontaneous bursts of GB diffu-              shows the diffusion coef\u64257?cients in liquid Al computed in this\par
sivity. We carefully characterize the length and time scales of            work and the diffusion coef\u64257?cients in FCC Al taken from the\par
the avalanches and show that they fully explain the observed               literature. In agreement with prior work6, the GB diffusion\par
intermittent diffusion behavior and its size dependence. We                coef\u64257?cients are intermediate between those in the supercooled\par
discuss possible implications of our \u64257?ndings for the computer              liquid and in the perfect crystal. Both GBs exhibit diffusion ani-\par
modeling of GB diffusion and for atomic transport in nano-                 sotropy with faster diffusion along the tilt axis (y-axis) than\par
scale systems.                                                             normal to it (x-axis). Diffusion in the \u931?3 GB exhibits a larger\par
\par
2                      COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | (2022)3:90 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7 | www.nature.com/commsmat\par
COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7                                                                                                                ARTICLE\par
\par
degree of anisotropy and is over an order of magnitude slower                                          behavior correlates with the lower energy of the \u931?3 GB (418 mJ/\par
than diffusion in the \u931?17 GB (except close to the melting tem-                                         m2) relative to the \u931?17 GB (488 mJ/m2)5,6.\par
perature where the two diffusivities tend to converge). This                                             Below the homologous temperature of 0.9Tm (Tm = 929 K\par
                                                                                                       being the Al melting point predicted by the Al-M potential), the\par
                                                                                                       GB diffusion coef\u64257?cients follow the Arrhenius relation\par
                                                                                                                                                 \par
                                                                                                                                              Ei\par
                                                                                                                            Di \u188? D0;i exp         ;                \u240?1\u222?\par
                                                                                                                                             kB T\par
\par
                                                                                                       where the index i refers to the directions parallel (\u8739?\u8739?) or normal\par
                                                                                                       (\u8869?) to the tilt axis, D0,i is the entropic prefactor, Ei is the\par
                                                                                                       activation energy of diffusion, and kB is Boltzmann\u8217?s constant.\par
                                                                                                       Table 2 summarizes the Arrhenius parameters for each GB\par
                                                                                                       obtained by \u64257?tting Eq. (1) to the data below 0.9Tm. For the \u931?3 GB,\par
                                                                                                       the average activation energy (1.38 eV) is signi\u64257?cantly higher than\par
                                                                                                       for the \u931?17 GB (0.77 eV) and comparable to the literature data for\par
                                                                                                       lattice diffusion (1.25-1.45 eV)21. At high temperatures, a\par
                                                                                                       premelting regime is observed in both GBs as evident from the\par
                                                                                                       rapid increase in the diffusivity with temperature. The \u931?17 GB\par
                                                                                                       fully premelts and its diffusivity comes close to that in liquid Al\par
                                                                                                       near Tm, which is consistent with previous work on this GB in\par
                                                                                                       copper6,20,22. The \u931?3 GB also premelts, but its diffusivity remains\par
                                                                                                       below the bulk liquid diffusivity. This work is focused on\par
                                                                                                       diffusion at intermediate temperatures T < 0.8Tm (T < 750 K), at\par
                                                                                                       which both GBs are relatively \u64258?at and immobile on the MD\par
                                                                                                       timescales. This allows us to cleanly analyze the diffusion\par
                                                                                                       mechanisms without the added complications of GB roughening,\par
                                                                                                       migration, or premelting.\par
\par
                                                                                                       Avalanche-like diffusion mechanisms. Our \u64257?rst key observation\par
                                                                                                       is the signi\u64257?cant intermittency of GB diffusion at the intermediate\par
                                                                                                       temperatures. The effect is illustrated in Fig. 2a where we plot the\par
                                                                                                       mean-square displacement (MSD) of atoms in the \u931?3 GB core as\par
                                                                                                       a function of time. The remarkable feature of the plot is the slope\par
                                                                                                       \u64258?uctuations with stochastic switches between nearly horizontal\par
                                                                                                       and large-slope portions. The zig-zag shape of this plot points to\par
                                                                                                       the existence of two dynamic regimes with a very small and a\par
                                                                                                       relatively large GB diffusivity. We refer to the plateaus of the\par
                                                                                                       diffusivity as the locked states and to the surges of diffusion as\par
                                                                                                       avalanches. The times at which the avalanches nucleate corre-\par
                                                                                                       spond to abrupt increases in the number of mobile atoms in the\par
                                                                                                       GB core, as illustrated in Fig. 2b. In contrast, during the locked\par
Fig. 1 Atomic structures and diffusion coef\u64257?cients for the Al \u931?3 and \u931?17                               periods, most GB atoms remain immobile; only a few atoms\par
GBs. a, b The optimized GB structures as viewed parallel (left column) and                             execute jumps, usually in the form of small rings of highly cor-\par
normal (right column) to the tilt axis. Atoms identi\u64257?ed with perfect FCC                               related displacements (Fig. 2c).\par
coordination via common neighbor analysis are colored grey and all other                                  The diffusivity bursts are dynamic signatures of the avalanches,\par
atoms are colored red. c Arrhenius diagram of GB diffusion coef\u64257?cients                                 but they also produce a structural signature. Each avalanche\par
parallel (D\u8739?\u8739?) and perpendicular (D\u8869?) to the tilt axis. The vertical line                              period is accompanied by a drastically increased point defect\par
indicates the melting point predicted by the interatomic potential. Shown                              activity in the GB core and thus a temporary decrease in the\par
for comparison are the computed diffusivities in liquid Al and the                                     structural order. An avalanche triggers a massive formation of\par
experimental (dashed stripe)53,54 and computed (lower stripe)21 literature                             vacancies and interstitials, which occur in almost equal amounts.\par
data for self-diffusion in FCC Al.                                                                     Comparison of Figs. 2a and 3a shows that the numbers of\par
\par
 Table 2 Activation energies (E) and prefactors (D0) for self diffusion.\par
\par
 GB description                                          Direction                                E (eV)                                          D0 (m2/s)\par
 \u931?3 h110i tilt 70.5\u8728?                                     \u8741? tilt axis                              1.31 \u177? 0.03                                     (3.89 \u177? 7.8) \u215? 10\u8722?3\par
                                                         \u8869? tilt axis                              1.45 \u177? 0.03                                     (1.17 \u177? 2.24) \u215? 10\u8722?2\par
 \u931?17 h100i tilt 61.9\u8728?                                    \u8741? tilt axis                              0.72 \u177? 0.01                                     (5.53 \u177? 1.59) \u215? 10\u8722?6\par
                                                         \u8869? tilt axis                              0.81 \u177? 0.01                                     (2.09 \u177? 0.74) \u215? 10\u8722?5\par
 Supercooled liquid                                                                               0.227 \u177? 0.001                                   (9.69 \u177? 0.24) \u215? 10\u8722?8\par
 FCC crystal:\par
 Experiment53                                                                                     1.32                                            1.79 \u215? 10\u8722?5\par
 DFT calculations21                                                                               1.25 \u8722? 1.35                                     5.42 \u215? 10\u8722?6 \u8722? 2.42 \u215? 10\u8722?5\par
\par
 The reference data for diffusion in FCC Al is taken from experiments53 and \u64257?rst-principles density functional theory (DFT) calculations with several different DFT functionals21.\par
\par
\par
COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | (2022)3:90 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7 | www.nature.com/commsmat                                                                               3\par
ARTICLE                                                                 COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7\par
\par
\par
vacancies and interstitials in the GB core strongly correlate not                 also correlate with the total number of mobile atoms (Fig. 3a, c),\par
only with each other but also with the occurrence of locked and                   con\u64257?rming that GB diffusion occurs by defect-mediated mechan-\par
avalanche time periods. The \u64258?uctuating point defect populations                   isms. At 700 K, a typical avalanche creates hundreds of point\par
                                                                                  defects and activates thousands of mobile atoms.\par
                                                                                     The questions then arise: how does an avalanche begin, and\par
                                                                                  how does it end? Careful structural analysis (see Methods) reveals\par
                                                                                  that a typical avalanche starts with the formation of an interstitial\par
                                                                                  atom in the GB core that hops multiple times (on the ps\par
                                                                                  timescale) before pushing a regular atom out of its preferred site\par
                                                                                  (Fig. 3b). This event triggers a cascade of collective structural\par
                                                                                  excitations with a string-like character in which multiple atoms\par
                                                                                  move simultaneously in the same direction. A string-like\par
                                                                                  excitation can be viewed as an extended Frenkel pair in which\par
                                                                                  the leading atom has an interstitial character (associated with\par
                                                                                  local compression) and the trailing atom has a vacancy character\par
                                                                                  (associated with local tension). This interpretation is con\u64257?rmed\par
                                                                                  by analyzing the free volume distribution in the population of\par
                                                                                  mobile atoms (see Supplementary Fig. 1). Importantly, the\par
                                                                                  avalanches involve the facilitated dynamics23,24 of the multiple\par
                                                                                  Frenkel pairs and neighboring string-like excitations. Namely, a\par
                                                                                  collective atomic displacement at one location triggers nearby\par
                                                                                  diffusive events, creating a positive feedback for further propaga-\par
                                                                                  tion of the atomic displacement \u64257?eld that rapidly grows in size\par
                                                                                  into a full-\u64258?edged avalanche. As the point-defect population\par
Fig. 2 Example of intermittent diffusion at intermediate temperatures.            grows, so does the probability of their mutual recombination.\par
a Atomic MSD as a function of time at 710 K (0.77 Tm) for the \u931?3 GB for a         Eventually, a bifurcation point is reached at which the dynamics\par
typical GB cross-section (10 nm \u215? 10 nm). Typical atomic displacement             switch to a recombination regime. We hypothesize that the locked\par
diagrams during the b avalanche and c locked time periods corresponding           states arise from spontaneous switches of the diffusion process\par
to the blue and red regions in (a). The arrows represent net displacements        from the multiplication to the recombination regime. Self-\par
during time intervals of 1.2 ns and 3 ns and are colored by the displacement      annihilation of point defects across the periodic boundary\par
magnitude. The scale bar has units of \u64257?rst nearest neighbor distance r0.          conditions can also play a role.\par
Note the enhanced atomic mobility in the avalanche regime and only a few             Our second key \u64257?nding is that the intermittent behavior of GB\par
displaced atoms in the locked regime.                                             diffusion is system-size dependent on the ~10 nm length scale.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 3 Point defect signatures of avalanche-like diffusion. a Peaks in the numbers of vacancies and interstitials correlate with the locked and avalanche\par
time periods seen in Fig. 2a. b A typical collective diffusion event involves the formation and multiplication of Frenkel pairs. The arrows represent string-like\par
displacements during the time interval \u916?t = 80 ps and colored in dark grey and light grey for displacements smaller and larger than the \u64257?rst-neighbor\par
distance r0. c Peaks in the number of mobile atoms also correlate with the locked and avalanche time periods. d Correlation between the point-defect\par
population and the number of mobile atoms in the GB core with the correlation factor of R2 = 0.83.\par
\par
4                         COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | (2022)3:90 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7 | www.nature.com/commsmat\par
COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7                                                                                                ARTICLE\par
\par
                                                                                                          Fig. 4 Finite size effects of diffusion and temperature dependence.\par
 a                                                                                                        a Atomic MSD versus time at the temperature of 700 K (0.75 Tm) for the\par
                                                 0.03\par
                                                            (30 nm x 30 nm)                               (10 nm \u215? 10 nm) and (30 nm \u215? 30 nm) GB cross-sections for the Al \u931?3 GB.\par
                                                            (10 nm x 10 nm)                               Note that the diffusion intermittency disappears with increasing cross-\par
                                0.025\par
                                                                                                          section. b Size dependence of GB diffusivity for several different cross-\par
                                                                                                          sections with a \u64257?xed 13 nm size perpendicular to the tilt axis and a varied\par
                                                 0.02                                                     size from 6 nm to 38 nm along the tilt axis. The points represent\par
     MSD (nm2)\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                          independent MD runs with different velocity seeds. The red points\par
                                0.015                                                                     represent the average values. c Locked-state probability (fraction of plateau\par
                                                                                                          portions in (a)) as a measure of intermittency plotted as a function of\par
                                                 0.01                                                     temperature. The error bars are obtained by using up to ten velocity seeds\par
                                                                                                          at each temperature. The sigmoidal \u64257?t is only meant to guide the eye. Note\par
                                                                                                          the suppression of intermittency with increasing temperature.\par
                                0.005\par
\par
                                                   0\par
                                                        0        5       10         15         20         measure of the intermittent diffusion behavior. The plot clearly\par
                                                                        Time (ns)                         shows that the scatter decreases with increasing GB size. (The\par
                                                                                                          average diffusivity values seem to increase with the size, but this\par
 b                                                  x10                                                   trend does not pass statistical signi\u64257?cance tests.) The probability\par
            Diffusivity along tilt axis (m /s)\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                 2.5                                                      of locked states can also be used as a measure of intermittency.\par
        2\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                          The plot Fig. 4c shows that, for a \u64257?xed (10 nm \u215? 10 nm) cross-\par
                                                                                                          section, the intermittency decreases with increasing temperature\par
                                                   2                                                      and vanishes at about 750 K. These tests demonstrate that the\par
                                                                                                          intermittent behavior of GB diffusion exists in a particular\par
                                                 1.5                                                      temperature-size domain and disappears at high temperatures\par
                                                                                                          and/or large GB sizes.\par
                                                                                                             We posit that both phenomena, the GB diffusion intermittency\par
                                                   1                                                      and its size dependence, have the same physical origin: the \u64257?nite\par
                                                                                                          size of the mobile atom clusters generated by the point-defect\par
                                                 0.5                                                      avalanches. In a large GB area, multiple avalanches can form at\par
                                                                                                          different moments at random locations. The measured diffusion\par
                                                                                                          coef\u64257?cient then represents the atomic mobility averaged over\par
                                                   0\par
                                                            10           20            30           40    multiple avalanches and exhibits a smooth and size-independent\par
                                                                                                          behavior. If the GB size is less than or comparable to the\par
                                                                 Size along tilt axis (nm)                avalanche size, the boundary conditions truncate the mobile\par
                                                                                                          cluster to the GB size. Each mobility surge then quickly spreads\par
 c                                                                                                        over the entire GB area and later stops across the entire GB area,\par
                                                  1                                                       causing the on-and-off behavior seen in Figs. 3a and 4a. Due to\par
         Locked state probability\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                          the anisotropy of GB structure, the intermittency condition can\par
                                                                                                          be met when the mobile cluster size becomes comparable to the\par
                                                 0.8                                                      GB linear dimension in at least one direction. The disappearance\par
                                                                                                          of the diffusion intermittency at high temperatures is explained\par
                                                 0.6                                                      by a decrease in the mobile cluster size with temperature.\par
                                                                                                             To provide mechanistic support to this explanation, we have\par
                                                 0.4                                                      analyzed the dynamic length scales of the GB diffusion in more\par
                                                                                                          detail. We \u64257?nd that the measures of dynamic length scales used in\par
                                                 0.2                                                      previous work8,11 predict lengths that are too small in magnitude\par
                                                                                                          to explain the observed diffusion intermittency. For example, the\par
                                                                                                          average (1.4 nm) and maximum (7 nm) string lengths computed\par
                                                  0\par
                                                                                                          for the \u931?3 GB at 700 K by the standard string-like segmentation\par
                                                                                                          method (see Methods) are smaller than the observed ~10 nm\par
                                                  600            650       700           750        800\par
                                                                                                          system-size effect. A method capturing the length scale of the\par
                                                                          T (K)                           entire avalanche region was required.\par
                                                                                                             As stated above, the avalanches exist due to the dynamic\par
                                                                                                          facilitation of collective atomic displacements, in which a local\par
This was demonstrated by increasing the GB cross-section and                                              excitation spreads in a self-catalytic manner by increasing the\par
remeasuring the diffusion coef\u64257?cients and the MSD curves. In the                                          probability of atomic displacements in neighboring regions.\par
example shown in Fig. 4a, the initial zig-zag shape of the MSD                                            Facilitated dynamics can be conveniently visualized using space-\par
curves is replaced by linear functions when the cross-section is                                          time diagrams23. To construct such a diagram, displacement\par
increased from (10 nm \u215? 10 nm) to (30 nm \u215? 30 nm). In a more                                              \u64257?elds corresponding to a \u64257?xed time interval are stacked together\par
systematic test, the GB cross-section in the direction parallel to                                        along the time axis and viewed in a space-time cross-section\par
the tilt axis was increased incrementally while keeping the size                                          (Fig. 5a, b). We note that in Fig. 5a, artistic license is taken such\par
normal to the tilt axis \u64257?xed. For each cross-section, the diffusivity                                     that the \u64257?nite width of the GB core along the z direction is visible\par
was measured several times with different velocity seeds as shown                                         along the time axis. The diagram reveals the formation and\par
in Fig. 4b. The scatter of the points at each cross-section is a                                          disappearance of mobile and immobile clusters in space and time.\par
\par
COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | (2022)3:90 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7 | www.nature.com/commsmat                                                                         5\par
ARTICLE                                                                COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 5 Avalanche time and length scales. a Space-time atomic mobility diagram for the \u931?3 GB at 700 K computed with the time interval of \u916?t = 40 ps and\par
viewed perpendicular to the tilt axis. The \u64257?nite temperature GB structure is shown on the left with light grey FCC atoms and red non-FCC atoms. The\par
immobile clusters are evident as voids (or bubbles)24 separating mobile atom trajectories. The arrows show examples of mobile and immobile cluster\par
dimensions in time. b Cross section of the same diagram with all time data projected onto the GB plane. The rectangular box indicates the 6 nm scale of the\par
GB structure shown in (a) relative to the GB area. c Probability distribution of lifetimes of mobile and immobile clusters. Note that immobile clusters persist\par
on a longer time scale than mobile clusters. d Avalanche size distribution at 720 K as measured by the maximum avalanche size perpendicular and parallel\par
to the tilt axis. The avalanches are elongated along the tilt axis and exhibit a cutoff behavior with large avalanches becoming increasingly unlikely with\par
increasing size. Note that the cutoff size along the tilt axis is larger than 10 nm.\par
\par
\par
The GB structural units blink between on and off states                          well-consistent with the length scale of the system-size effect of\par
corresponding to the diffusive and quiescent time periods. The                   GB diffusion (cf. Figs. 3a and 4a). That the avalanche size\par
branching and coalescence of diffusion trajectories on the                       decreases with temperature was con\u64257?rmed by the analysis shown\par
diagram are signatures of facilitated dynamics. We have                          in Supplementary Figure 2, in which the average avalanche size\par
developed a space-time clustering algorithm (see Methods) that                   was estimated by the virtual system-size analysis explained in\par
identi\u64257?es the mobile and immobile clusters and measures their                    Methods.\par
dimensions in space and time. The time dimensions of these\par
clusters are associated with the lifetimes of the avalanches and\par
locked states. As demonstrated in Fig. 5c, we \u64257?nd that immobile                  GB character and material dependence of avalanche-like dif-\par
clusters have a longer average lifetime than mobile clusters. This               fusion mechanisms. The intermittent behavior and its dis-\par
time scale separation is a known hallmark of facilitated                         appearance with increasing system size have been con\u64257?rmed for\par
dynamics23,24. The spatial dimensions of the mobile and                          the (100) twist and HAIC boundaries, as illustrated in Fig. 6.\par
immobile clusters are measures of avalanche size. Figure 5d                      These boundaries are crystallographically and structurally dif-\par
displays the avalanche size probability distribution computed for                ferent from the \u931?3 and \u931?17 GBs but exhibit the same correlation\par
the \u931?3 GB at 700 K. The plot shows that the avalanches are                       between the avalanche time periods on the MSD plots and the\par
elongated parallel to the tilt axis (which is consistent with the                bursts of point-defect activity as found in the \u931?3 and \u931?17 GBs.\par
diffusion anisotropy) and have a signi\u64257?cant probability of being 5               These tests con\u64257?rm the generic character of our main results for a\par
to 15 nm in size. Over 15 percent of the mobile atoms participate                wide variety of GB structures.\par
in avalanches larger than 10 nm along the tilt axis. The largest                    All simulations discussed so far utilized the Al-M interatomic\par
avalanches contain a thousand or more atoms and have linear                      potential15. To demonstrate further generality of our results,\par
dimensions up to 20 nm along the tilt axis. These dimensions are                 selected simulations were repeated with two additional Al\par
\par
6                         COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | (2022)3:90 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7 | www.nature.com/commsmat\par
COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7                                                                            ARTICLE\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 6 Avalanche-like diffusion behavior for various GB types. Intermittent diffusion behavior in the a, b \u931?85\{100\} low-angle twist GB at 500 K and\par
c, d \{100\}\u8739?\u8739?\{111\} HAIC GB at 700 K. The twist GB is composed of a square network of dislocations displayed in the top left corner of the MSD plot. Panels\par
(b) and (d) are atomic displacement maps using the same color coding as in Fig. 3 and representing the avalanches shown as blue highlighted regions in\par
(a) and (c). In (b), the GB structure constrains the collective atomic displacements to the dislocation cores, resulting in string-like and ring-like trajectories.\par
\par
potentials and diffusion calculations were conducted for the \u931?3 GB                 Discussion\par
in FCC Ni and the \u931?17 GB in BCC Fe (described in Supplementary                     The previous paradigm of GB diffusion has been that this process\par
Table 1) with the embedded-atom interatomic potentials developed                   is continuous in time and uniform along the GB area. Contrary to\par
in25 and26 and applied to surveys of GB properties in27 and28. The                 this idealistic picture, we have shown that there is a temperature-\par
additional Al potentials include the embedded-atom potential from                  size domain in which GB diffusion is discontinuous in both time\par
ref. 29 (Al-99) and the recently developed physically-informed                     and space. For the particular GBs studied here, the time and space\par
neural network (PINN) potential30 referred to here as Al-PINN.                     scales of the diffusion intermittency are several nanoseconds and\par
The latter is computationally much slower than the Al-M and Al-                    several nanometers, respectively, although the exact numbers can\par
99 potentials but gives the most accurate description of Al                        be system-dependent. The physical origin of the GB diffusion\par
properties (see Supplementary Table 2 for a comparison of relevant                 intermittency is the dynamic heterogeneity of the diffusion pro-\par
properties).                                                                       cess. The atomic displacements are not distributed uniformly\par
   An Arrhenius diagram summarizing the diffusion coef\u64257?cients in                   along the boundary but cluster together into large groups of\par
the \u931?3 and \u931?17 GBs computed with the Al potentials is shown in                     mobile atoms undergoing a collective rearrangement. Sponta-\par
Supplementary Fig. 3a. All three potentials display similar diffusion              neous formation of a mobile cluster is triggered by a local atomic\par
behaviors, with a comparable degree of diffusion anisotropy and                    rearrangement that spreads like an avalanche by the dynamic\par
similar temperatures of premelting. More importantly, the                          facilitation mechanism. The avalanche region is characterized by\par
existence of the collective diffusion mechanisms in the \u931?3 and                     a drastically increased defect population and enhanced atomic\par
\u931?17 GBs is reproduced with all three potentials. In particular, the                mobility. If the avalanche size is comparable to the GB size in at\par
Al-PINN simulations predict string-like displacement geometries                    least one direction, a spike in the GB diffusivity arises. This is the\par
visually indistinguishable from those obtained with the Al-M                       cause of the system-size dependence of GB diffusion and the\par
potential. Furthermore, simulations with the Al-99 potential reveal                reason why the size effect vanishes when the GB area is large.\par
the same type of diffusion intermittency as observed with the Al-M                    To put our \u64257?ndings in perspective with the literature, dynamic\par
potential (see example in Supplementary Fig. 3b).                                  heterogeneity has been studied for years, but mostly in disordered\par
   Size dependent diffusion intermittency on the scale of 10 nm is                 bulk systems such as supercooled liquids and glasses9\u8211?11,13. The\par
also observed during GB diffusion in the \u931?3 GB in FCC Ni and                       concept of dynamic facilitation was introduced more\par
\u931?17 GB in BCC Fe at intermediate temperatures (see Supple-                         recently23,24,32 but again in the context of bulk disordered sys-\par
mentary Fig. 4). Collective mechanisms have previously been                        tems. Zhang et al.8 have shown that GB migration and diffusion\par
reported in BCC Fe GBs31, though intermittency on such large                       processes exhibit dynamic heterogeneity similar to that in\par
scales has not been documented. The observation of avalanches                      supercooled liquids. They also observed string-like atomic dis-\par
across multiple GB structures and chemistries provides strong                      placements on time and length scales similar to those in super-\par
evidence that avalanche-mediated diffusion is generic to metallic                  cooled liquids. However, their work was focused primarily on GB\par
GBs at intermediate temperatures.                                                  migration rather than diffusion. Dynamic heterogeneity and\par
\par
COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | (2022)3:90 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7 | www.nature.com/commsmat                                                     7\par
ARTICLE                                                           COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7\par
\par
\par
collective diffusion mechanisms were also investigated in highly           to gain at least some insights into the GB diffusion dynamics on\par
disordered, premelted copper GBs7. Intermittent diffusion beha-            the atomic level.\par
vior was seen in MD simulations of low-angle twist GBs, but no\par
explanation was attempted33. None of the prior work7,8,33                  Methods\par
investigated the physical origin of the GB diffusion intermittency         The Large-scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator (LAMMPS)43 was\par
or studied its size effect. On the other hand, avalanche-mediated          used to conduct molecular statics and MD simulations. The software package\par
dynamics were investigated by MD simulations of several pro-               OVITO44 was used for visualization and analysis of the collective diffusion\par
                                                                           mechanisms. The Al-M and Al-99 potentials were downloaded from the LAMMPS\par
cesses, such as crystallization of glasses (see, e.g,34 and references     interatomic potential library. The GitHub codes from45 were used for LAMMPS\par
therein), but not for GB or even bulk diffusion. It should also be         simulations with the Al-PINN potential.\par
noted that the avalanches during glass crystallization occur in a\par
metastable state as the system gradually transitions to a more             GB structure optimization. Unrelaxed GB structures were created by joining two\par
stable state. By contrast, the avalanches discussed in this work           grains in a simulation box with periodic boundary conditions in the GB plane (x\u8211?y\par
occur in an equilibrium system and are caused by thermal \u64258?uc-              coordinate plane) and free-surface boundary conditions normal to the GB\par
tuations away from equilibrium. Thus, although some of the                 (z-direction). The GB cross-section was chosen with dimensions at least 10 nm by\par
individual components of this work pre-existed, they were                  10 nm in the x and y directions, and each grain had a thickness of at least 6 nm. To\par
                                                                           study \u64257?nite-size effects on diffusion, several GB cross-sections were tested up to 32\par
expanded and integrated into a coherent mechanistic explanation            nm by 32 nm. For the commensurate GBs (Table 1), the lateral bicrystal dimen-\par
of the previously unknown effects reported in this article.                sions were chosen with integer repeats of the coincident site lattice (CSL) unit cell.\par
   One lesson from this work for future atomistic simulations is           For the incommensurate GB, the mis\u64257?t strain was minimized within the maximum\par
that the system size effect is important. If the GB size is com-           interface size (30 nm by 30 nm) and applied to the upper grain only. The mini-\par
                                                                           mization procedure was repeated at different temperatures for lattice constants\par
parable to or smaller than the avalanche size and the simulation           expanded by the precomputed bulk thermal expansion coef\u64257?cients. The maximum\par
time is too short, the MSD-vs-time curve can represent either an           absolute value of the mis\u64257?t strain used in this work was 1.001.\par
avalanche or a locked state. In either case, the GB diffusivity                The initial GB structures were optimized by a standard grid search that seeks to\par
extracted from the Einstein relation will be far from the real value.      \u64257?nd a deep local energy minimum46,47. Several hundred initial unrelaxed GB\par
                                                                           structures were prepared with different rigid shifts applied to the upper grain\par
Multiple simulations with different system sizes and diffusion             relative to the lower. Translations were chosen within a unit cell of the reciprocal\par
times are required to ensure averaging over multiple avalanche-            lattice of the CSL (known as the displacement shift complete lattice) and included\par
locked cycles to obtain the converged GB diffusivity. In experi-           overlaps of the two grains. For each initial structure, pairs of closely spaced atoms\par
ments, a nano-scale GB can exhibit intermittent mass transport,            were identi\u64257?ed and one atom was deleted at random if the overlap radii were in the\par
                                                                           range 0.7\u8211?0.95r0, where r0 = 0.28 nm is the \u64257?rst nearest neighbor distance in FCC\par
creating an additional source of noise in electronic devices35. The        Al. Conjugate gradient minimization was performed at 0 K to relax the atoms in\par
situation can, for example, be relevant to mass diffusion and/or           the GB core of each candidate structure. The lowest energy structure was used as\par
electromigration in conductor lines in integrated circuits.                input for the subsequent diffusion simulations. This optimization procedure\par
Assuming a nanosecond time scale of the avalanches, the                    recovered the well-known structures of the \u931?3 and \u931?17 GBs, but it did not sample\par
respective \u64258?uctuation frequency could be in the GHz range36.               different GB densities as in more sophisticated optimization routines48\u8211?50.\par
   In addition to the practical aspects mentioned above, this work\par
raises many fundamental questions. In contrast to the homo-                Point defect analysis. Wigner-Seitz analysis as implemented in OVITO was used\par
geneously disordered matter such as 2D or 3D supercooled                   to analyze the point defect content of GBs. This method identi\u64257?es point defects in a\par
                                                                           \u64257?nite-temperature GB structure relative to the Voronoi tessellation of a defect-free\par
liquids and glasses, GBs are partially ordered quasi-2D systems            reference structure. As the reference state, we used the 0 K GB structure homo-\par
with a tunable structure and structural anisotropy. They can               geneously expanded by the thermal expansion coef\u64257?cient at the chosen tempera-\par
support a broad spectrum of local structural excitations (defects)         ture. Trajectory smoothing was applied over a time window of O(10) ps to mitigate\par
with diverse sizes, energetics, and geometries. The effects of this        the effect of thermal noise during defect identi\u64257?cation.\par
partial order and the structural richness on the dynamic hetero-\par
geneity require further investigations. The exact mechanism of             GB self diffusion coef\u64257?cient calculations. GB diffusion was studied by canonical\par
the dynamic facilitation in GBs remains unknown but could be               (NVT) and microcanonical (NVE) MD simulations. A multi-step equilibration\par
                                                                           procedure was performed before production runs. First, the bicrystal was homo-\par
different from that in homogeneously disordered systems. For               geneously expanded by the precomputed bulk thermal expansion strain at the\par
example, we found a much larger avalanche length scale (up                 chosen temperature. Next, a 1 nm thick rigid slab at the top of the upper grain was\par
to ~70r0) compared to that in supercooled liquids and glasses              allowed to \u64258?oat in z-direction during a short (0.1 ns) NVT anneal. Combined with\par
(below ~10r0)37 (r0 being the \u64257?rst nearest neighbor distance).             the pre-expansion, this step reduced the pressure in the grains to near zero. Then,\par
                                                                           the rigid slabs at the top and bottom of the bicrystal were \u64257?xed and an NVT anneal\par
Furthermore, this work only studied GBs in a single-component              was performed for 1 ns. The \u64257?xed boundary conditions suppressed spontaneous\par
system. Adding segregating solutes to the GB core will add a new           GB sliding events to clearly identify the diffusion mechanisms. After the equili-\par
level of complexity but will also provide a means to control the           bration, production NVT runs were performed for up to 40 ns and several hundred\par
GB dynamics. While the segregation effect on GB diffusion has              dump \u64257?les were output for the subsequent calculation of the diffusion coef\u64257?cients.\par
                                                                           NVE simulations were then performed starting from the end of each NVT run to\par
been studied38, the underlying microscopic mechanisms remain               analyze the diffusion mechanisms. The NVE ensemble was chosen to eliminate any\par
unknown.                                                                   possible effect of the thermostat on spontaneous diffusive events. For selected\par
   Finally, even though most GB diffusion measurements are                 calculations, including diffusion measurements at low temperatures, additional\par
performed on time and space scales far exceeding the avalanche             statistics were obtained by performing multiple runs with different velocity seeds.\par
scales, one should explore alternative methods capable of                      The GB self-diffusion coef\u64257?cients were measured by tracking atoms within a 2\par
                                                                           nm thick layer centered at the GB. The current GB position was determined as the\par
extracting at least some mechanistic information. For example,             average z-coordinate of non-FCC atoms identi\u64257?ed by the polyhedral template\par
isotope effect measurements provided evidence for collective               matching modi\u64257?er in OVITO51. The diffusion coef\u64257?cients within the layer were\par
diffusion mechanisms in metallic glasses39. Although such mea-             calculated from the Einstein relations Dx = \u9001?x2\u9002?/2t and Dy = \u9001?y2\u9002?/2t, where \u9001?x2\u9002?\par
surements do not give detailed information about speci\u64257?c                   and \u9001?y2\u9002? are the MSDs of atoms in the respective directions parallel to the GB plane\par
                                                                           and t is the simulation time. Bootstrap resampling was employed as in52 to\par
mechanisms and are limited to elements with available isotopes,            compute error estimates associated with the diffusion coef\u64257?cient. The hyper-\par
their application to GB diffusion could still be attempted to              parameters chosen for this method include a smoothing window of 5 ps, a block\par
con\u64257?rm the existence of collective atomic rearrangements pre-              length of 20 ps, and the number of resampled trajectories equal to 100. Note that\par
dicted by the simulations. Dielectric spectroscopy methods have            using a \u64257?xed-width layer can underestimate the diffusion coef\u64257?cient because of the\par
                                                                           possible inclusion of some of the immobile atoms from the perfect lattice regions\par
also been used in speci\u64257?c glasses and supercooled liquids to               next to the GB core. This underestimation was corrected by rescaling the diffusion\par
resolve the characteristic frequencies of slow and fast processes          coef\u64257?cients by the average inverse fraction of the mobile atoms in the layer at long\par
during glassy dynamics40\u8211?42. They, too, could potentially be used          times. The convergence of diffusion calculations in time was veri\u64257?ed by checking\par
\par
8                      COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | (2022)3:90 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7 | www.nature.com/commsmat\par
COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7                                                                                         ARTICLE\par
\par
that the slope of the log(MSD)-log(t) plot was equal to one. All diffusion                  computer simulation part of this research used the publicly available codes LAMMPS\par
coef\u64257?cients reported here satis\u64257?ed this condition.                                          and OVITO. The routine computer scripts controlling the execution of the calculations\par
    At high temperatures (typically, T > 0.85Tm) and depending on the GB, random            are not central to this work but are available from the corresponding authors upon\par
interface displacements were observed in addition to diffusion. When the average            reasonable request.\par
interface position changed by more than 0.5 nm, the diffusion calculation was reset\par
from the new GB position.\par
\par
                                                                                            Code availability\par
Liquid self diffusion coef\u64257?cient calculations. To compute the liquid diffusion              The code for computer simulations and post-processing analysis of avalanche-like\par
coef\u64257?cients, an initial 32,000-atom liquid structure was created in a periodic box by       diffusion mechanisms is available upon reasonable request.\par
heating a perfect Al crystal in the isothermal-isobaric (NPT) ensemble to 1500 K\par
and holding it for 200 ps. Next, a set of liquid samples was generated in the\par
temperature range from 1050 to 1450 K by quenching the high-temperature                     Received: 17 August 2022; Accepted: 31 October 2022;\par
structure at a rate of 50 K/100 ps and holding it at the set temperature for 200 ps.\par
A further stepwise quenching was performed from 1050 K to 600 K at a rate of\par
25 K/ns with a hold time of 2 ns every 50 K. These times were suf\u64257?cient for liquid\par
equilibration at the chosen temperatures as evidenced by converged total potential\par
energy and linear MSD vs time behavior. Crystallization was observed at and below\par
650 K, and these temperatures were not used for the diffusion calculations. Pro-            References\par
duction NVE anneals were performed for all liquid structures for 0.1 ns. The                1.    Sutton, A. P. & Balluf\u64257?, R. W. Interfaces in Crystalline Materials (Clarendon\par
diffusivity was computed from the 3D Einstein relation D = \u9001?r2\u9002?/6t and averaged                   Press, Oxford, 1995).\par
over 20 independent runs with different velocity seeds.                                     2.    Kaur, I. Mishin, Y. & Gust, W. Fundamentals of Grain and Interphase\par
                                                                                                  Boundary Diffusion (Wiley, Chichester, West Sussex, 1995).\par
                                                                                            3.    Mishin, Y., Asta, M. & Li, J. Atomistic modeling of interfaces and their impact\par
Analysis of hierarchical time and length scales associated with diffusion                         on microstructure and properties. Acta. Mater. 58, 1117\u8211?1151 (2010).\par
avalanches. The following algorithm was used to reveal string-like displacements in         4.    S\u248?rensen, M. R., Mishin, Y. & Voter, A. F. Diffusion mechanisms in cu grain\par
GB diffusion. First, mobile atoms were identi\u64257?ed within the GB core such that the net             boundaries. Phys. Rev. B 62, 3658 (2000).\par
displacement of an atom \u916?r during a preset time interval \u916?t was within the range            5.    Suzuki, A. & Mishin, Y. Atomistic modeling of point defects and diffusion in\par
0.4r0 < \u916?r < 1.2r0. Here, the upper bound was chosen to eliminate atoms that had\par
                                                                                                  copper grain boundaries. Interface Sci. 11, 131\u8211?148 (2003).\par
undergone multiple hops, and the lower bound was chosen to eliminate immobile\par
                                                                                            6.    Suzuki, A. & Mishin, Y. Atomic mechanisms of grain boundary diffusion: Low\par
atoms. Next, mobile atomic pairs (i, j) were found that remained nearest neighbors at\par
                                                                                                  versus high temperatures. J. Mater. Sci. 40, 3155\u8211?3161 (2005).\par
the times t = 0 and t = \u916?t and satis\u64257?ed the criterion min(\u8739?ri(t) \u8722? rj(0)\u8739?, \u8739?rj(t) \u8722?\par
                                                                                            7.    Mishin, Y. An atomistic view of grain boundary diffusion, in: Defect and\par
ri(0)\u8739?) < 0.43r0. This criterion captures atomic pairs with string-like motion in which\par
                                                                                                  Diffusion Forum, volume 363, Trans Tech Publ, 2015, pp. 1-11.\par
one atom jumps into the previous position of the other. The algorithm has three\par
hyper-parameters: the lower and upper bounds for the displacement and the sub-              8.    Zhang, H., Srolovitz, D. J., Douglas, J. F. & Warren, J. A. Grain boundaries\par
stitution distance (the multiplicative factors 0.4, 1.2 and 0.43 above). These para-              exhibit the dynamics of glass-forming liquids. Proc. Natl Acad Sci. 106,\par
meters were chosen based on the prior studies of diffusion in glass-forming                       7735\u8211?7740 (2009).\par
supercooled liquids8,11 and were \u64257?xed across all GBs studied in this work.                  9.    Donati, C. et al. Stringlike cooperative motion in a supercooled liquid. Phys.\par
    All mobile pairs containing common atoms were then joined into larger string-                 Rev. Lett. 80, 2338 (1998).\par
like clusters, and each cluster was assigned a unique ID. Cluster statistics were then      10.   Derlet, P., Bocquet, H. & Maa\u223?, R. Viscosity and transport in a model fragile\par
computed over all clusters, including the number of atoms and the gyration tensor.                metallic glass. Phys. Rev. Mater. 5, 125601 (2021).\par
The string identi\u64257?cation algorithm was repeated for a range of time intervals \u916?t            11.   Zhang, H., Wang, X., Yu, H.-B. & Douglas, J. F. Dynamic heterogeneity,\par
with multiple start times. The average string length, measured by the average                     cooperative motion, and Johari\u8211?Goldstein \u946? relaxation in a metallic glass-\par
number of atoms in the string-like cluster, typically exhibits a single maximum as a              forming material exhibiting a fragile-to-strong transition. Eur. Phys. J. E 44,\par
function of \u916?t at a characteristic time \u916?t \u188? t s .                                               1\u8211?30 (2021).\par
    The analysis of diffusion avalanches required a more \u64258?exible de\u64257?nition of mobile        12.   Fransson, E. & Erhart, P. Defects from phonons: Atomic transport by\par
clusters. The input to this method is the space-time trajectory consisting of atomic              concerted motion in simple crystalline materials. Acta. Mater. 196, 770\u8211?775\par
displacement \u64257?elds computed at a \u64257?xed time interval (\u916?t) and stacked in time. Here,               (2020).\par
\u916?t is a hyper-parameter taken to be approximately 0:02t s . First, the string clustering   13.   Annamareddy, A. & Eapen, J. Low dimensional string-like relaxation\par
step was performed in space-time with no upper bound on the displacement length                   underpins superionic conduction in \u64258?uorites and related structures. Sci. Rep.\par
and all other hyper-parameters as above. The lack of an upper bound allows the                    7, 1\u8211?12 (2017).\par
strings to incorporate atoms executing multiple jumps. Next, the string connectivity        14.   Saylor, D. M., El Dasher, B. S., Rollett, A. D. & Rohrer, G. S. Distribution of\par
criterion was relaxed: neighboring strings were combined in space if at least two                 grain boundaries in aluminum as a function of \u64257?ve macroscopic parameters.\par
atoms in adjacent strings (either in time or space) were no more than 1.2r0 apart. This           Acta. Mater. 52, 3649\u8211?3655 (2004).\par
hyper-parameter can be interpreted as a cutoff distance for the interaction range in        15.   Mendelev, M., Kramer, M., Becker, C. A. & Asta, M. Analysis of semi-\par
dynamic facilitation. It also provides a good visual segmentation of the data. If the             empirical interatomic potentials appropriate for simulation of crystalline and\par
cutoff distance is too large, or the trajectories in space-time are too dense, then all           liquid Al and Cu. Philos. Magaz. 88, 1723\u8211?1750 (2008).\par
atoms are part of the same mobile cluster and the algorithm loses its meaning. In the       16.   Medlin, D., Mills. M., Stobbs, W., Daw, M. & Cosandey F. HRTEM\par
space-time trajectories, the same atom can be included multiple times in the same                 observations of a \u931? = 3\{112\} bicrystal boundary in aluminum, MRS Online\par
mobile cluster if it executes multiple jumps. The mobile clusters often form elongated,           Proceedings Library (OPL) 295 (1992).\par
anisotropic shapes in space-time. Their size was quanti\u64257?ed as the number of unique          17.   Medlinet, D. et al. Migration dynamics of a \u931? = 3\{112\} boundary in\par
atoms in the cluster. The dynamic length scale of a given mobile cluster was                      aluminum, MRS Online Proceedings Library (OPL) 319 (1993).\par
quanti\u64257?ed as its maximum width along a given direction in the GB plane, and its             18.   Wang, J., Misra, A. & Hirth, J. Shear response of \u931? = 3\{112\} twin boundaries\par
timescale as the maximum width along the time axis.                                               in face-centered-cubic metals. Phys. Rev. B 83, 064106 (2011).\par
    Immobile clusters are also apparent in space-time diagrams as empty regions             19.   Marquis, E., Hamilton, J., Medlin, D. & L\u233?onard, F. Finite-size effects on the\par
(bubbles24) separating the mobile clusters. In principle, their length and time scales\par
                                                                                                  structure of grain boundaries. Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 156101 (2004).\par
can be computed in a similar manner as for the mobile clusters. However, in\par
                                                                                            20.   Koju, R. & Mishin, Y. Atomistic study of grain-boundary segregation and\par
practice a single percolating immobile cluster in the space-time diagram is often\par
                                                                                                  grain-boundary diffusion in Al-Mg alloys. Acta. Mater. 201, 596\u8211?603 (2020).\par
found with this method. An alternative method used here de\u64257?nes and computes the\par
                                                                                            21.   Hooshmand, M. S., Zhong, W., Zhao, J. C., Windl, W. & Ghazisaeidi, M. Data\par
immobility time by considering individual square (l \u215? l) GB patches in space. The\par
                                                                                                  on the comprehensive \u64257?rst-principles diffusion study of the aluminum-\par
immobility time in each patch is then computed as the time between mobility\par
events. The immobility time scale is obtained in the limit of l approaching zero,                 magnesium system. Data in Brief 30, 105381 (2020).\par
while the immobility time distribution can be computed at l = r0. The ratio of the          22.   Hickman, J. & Mishin, Y. Disjoining potential and grain boundary premelting\par
immobility and mobility times can also serve as a measure of diffusion                            in binary alloys. Phys. Rev. B 93, 224108 (2016).\par
intermittency. Considered as a function of the patch size l, this ratio is used in the      23.   Jung, Y., Garrahan, J. P. & Chandler, D. Dynamical exchanges in facilitated\par
virtual size-effect tests as shown in Supplementary Fig. 2.                                       models of supercooled liquids. J. Chem. Phys. 123, 084509 (2005).\par
                                                                                            24.   Chandler, D. & Garrahan, J. P. Dynamics on the way to forming glass: Bubbles\par
                                                                                                  in space-time. Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 61, 191\u8211?217 (2010).\par
                                                                                            25.   Foiles, S. & Hoyt, J. J. Computation of grain boundary stiffness and mobility\par
Data availability                                                                                 from boundary \u64258?uctuations. Acta Mater. 54, 3351\u8211?3357 (2006).\par
The data supporting the \u64257?ndings of this study are available in the Supplementary            26.   Mendelev, M. I. et al. Development of new interatomic potentials appropriate\par
Information \u64257?le or from the corresponding authors upon reasonable request. The                    for crystalline and liquid iron. Philos. Magaz. 83, 3977\u8211?3994 (2003).\par
\par
\par
COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | (2022)3:90 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7 | www.nature.com/commsmat                                                                   9\par
ARTICLE                                                                      COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7\par
\par
\par
27. Olmsted, D., Foiles, S. & Holm, E. A. Survey of computed grain boundary            51. Larsen, P. M., Schmidt, S. & Schi\u248?tz, J. Robust structural identi\u64257?cation via\par
    properties in face-centered cubic metals: I. Grain boundary energy. Acta.              polyhedral template matching. Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 24, 055007\par
    Mater. 57, 3694\u8211?3703 (2009).                                                           (2016).\par
28. Ratanaphan, S. et al. Grain boundary energies in body-centered cubic metals.       52. Race, C. Quantifying uncertainty in molecular dynamics simulations of grain\par
    Acta. Mater. 88, 346\u8211?354 (2015).                                                       boundary migration. Mol. Simul. 41, 1069\u8211?1073 (2015).\par
29. Mishin, Y., Farkas, D., Mehl, M. & Papaconstantopoulos, D. Interatomic             53. Zhong, W., Hooshmand, M. S., Ghazisaeidi, M., Windl, W. & Zhao, J.-C. An\par
    potentials for monoatomic metals from experimental data and ab initio                  integrated experimental and computational study of diffusion and atomic\par
    calculations. Phys. Rev. B 59, 3393 (1999).                                            mobility of the Aluminum\u8211?Magnesium system. Acta. Mater. 189, 214\u8211?231\par
30. Pun, G. P., Yamakov, V., Hickman, J., Glaessgen, E. & Mishin, Y.                       (2020).\par
    Development of a general-purpose machine-learning interatomic potential for        54. Dais, S., Messer, R. & Seeger, A. Nuclear-magnetic-resonance study of self-\par
    aluminum by the physically informed neural network method. Phys. Rev.                  diffusion in aluminium, in: Materials Science Forum, volume 15, Trans Tech\par
    Mater. 4, 113807 (2020).                                                               Publ, 1987, pp. 419-424.\par
31. Starikov, S., Mrovec, M. & Drautz, R. Study of grain boundary self-diffusion in\par
    iron with different atomistic models. Acta Mater. 188, 560\u8211?569 (2020).\par
32. Pan, A. C., Garrahan, J. P. & Chandler, D. Heterogeneity and growing length        Acknowledgements\par
    scales in the dynamics of kinetically constrained lattice gases in two             We would like to thank Raj Koju, Jack Douglas and Peter Derlet for helpful discussions.\par
    dimensions. Phys. Rev. E 72, 041106 (2005).                                        This research was supported by the National Science Foundation, Division of Materials\par
33. Sch\u246?nfelder, B., Gottstein, G. & Shvindlerman, L. Comparative study of grain-      Research, under Award no. 2103431.\par
    boundary migration and grain-boundary self-diffusion of [0 0 1] twist-grain\par
    boundaries in copper by atomistic simulations. Acta. Mater. 53, 1597\u8211?1609          Author contributions\par
    (2005).                                                                            Y.M. acquired funding for this research. I.C. wrote all computer codes/scripts required\par
34. Eduardo, S. et al. Avalanches mediate crystallization in a hard-sphere glass.      for this work and conducted all simulations reported here under Y.M.\u8217?s guidance and\par
    Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. 111, 75\u8211?80 (2014).                                           supervision. Both authors participated equally in interpreting the results and writing the\par
35. Koch, R. H., LLoyd, J. R. & Cronin, J. 1/f noise and grain-boundary diffusion      paper, and approved its \u64257?nal version.\par
    in aluminum and aluminium alloys. Phys. Rev. Lett. 55, 2487 (1985).\par
36. Zhang, H. & Douglas, J. Glassy interfacial dynamics of Ni nanoparticles: part I\par
    Colored noise, dynamic heterogeneity and collective atomic motion. Soft            Competing interests\par
    Matter 9, 1254\u8211?1265 (2013).                                                        The authors declare no competing interests.\par
37. Royall, C. P. & Williams, S. R. The role of local structure in dynamical arrest.\par
    Phys. Rep. 560, 1\u8211?75 (2015).\par
38. Koju, R. K. & Mishin, Y. Relationship between grain boundary segregation\par
                                                                                       Additional information\par
                                                                                       Supplementary information The online version contains supplementary material\par
    and grain boundary diffusion in Cu-Ag alloys. Phys. Rev. Mater. 4, 073403\par
                                                                                       available at https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7.\par
    (2020).\par
39. Faupel, F. et al. Diffusion in metallic glasses and supercooled melts. Rev. Mod.\par
                                                                                       Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to Ian Chesser or Yuri\par
    Phys. 75, 237 (2003).\par
                                                                                       Mishin.\par
40. Lunkenheimer, P. & Loidl, A. Dielectric spectroscopy of glass-forming\par
    materials: \u945?-relaxation and excess wing. Chem. Phys. 284, 205\u8211?219 (2002).\par
                                                                                       Peer review information Communications Materials thanks Sergei Starikov, Snehanshu\par
41. Jug, G., Loidl, A. & Tanaka, H. On the structural heterogeneity of supercooled\par
                                                                                       Pal and Daniel Utt for their contribution to the peer review of this work. Primary\par
    liquids and glasses (a). EPL (Europhys. Lett.) 133, 56002 (2021).\par
                                                                                       Handling Editors: Jet-Sing Lee and John Plummer. Peer reviewer reports are available.\par
42. Arceri, F., Landes, F., Berthier, L. & Biroli, G. A statistical mechanics\par
    perspective on glasses and aging, arXiv:2006.09725, 2022.\par
                                                                                       Reprints and permission information is available at http://www.nature.com/reprints\par
43. Plimpton, S. Fast parallel algorithms for short-range molecular dynamics. J.\par
    Comput. Phys. 117, 1\u8211?19 (1995).                                                    Publisher\u8217?s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in\par
44. Stukowski, A. Visualization and analysis of atomistic simulation data with         published maps and institutional af\u64257?liations.\par
    OVITO\u8211?the open visualization tool. Modelling Simul. Materi. Sci. Eng. 18,\par
    015012 (2009).\par
45. Files for running PINN simulations in LAMMPS: https://github.com/ymishin-\par
    gmu/LAMMPS-USER-PINN.                                                                                Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons\par
46. Olmsted, D. L., Holm, E. A. & Foiles, S. M. Survey of computed grain                                 Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing,\par
    boundary properties in face-centered cubic metals. II: Grain boundary              adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give\par
    mobility. Acta. Mater. 57, 3704\u8211?3713 (2009).                                       appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative\par
47. Tschopp, M. A., Coleman, S. P. & McDowell, D. L. Symmetric and                     Commons license, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party\par
    asymmetric tilt grain boundary structure and energy in Cu and Al (and              material in this article are included in the article\u8217?s Creative Commons license, unless\par
    transferability to other fcc metals). Integr. Mater. Manuf. Innov. 4, 11 (2015).   indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the\par
48. Frolov, T., Olmsted, D. L., Asta, M. & Mishin, Y. Structural phase                 article\u8217?s Creative Commons license and your intended use is not permitted by statutory\par
    transformations in metallic grain boundaries. Nat. Comm. 4, 1\u8211?7 (2013).            regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from\par
49. Hickman, J. & Mishin, Y. Extra variable in grain boundary description. Phys.       the copyright holder. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/\par
    Rev. Mater. 1, 10601 (2017).                                                       licenses/by/4.0/.\par
50. Yang, C., Zhang, M. & Qi, L. Grain boundary structure search by using an\par
    evolutionary algorithm with effective mutation methods. Comput. Mater. Sci.\par
    184, 109812 (2020).                                                                \u169? The Author(s) 2022\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
10                          COMMUNICATIONS MATERIALS | (2022)3:90 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s43246-022-00314-7 | www.nature.com/commsmat\par

}