{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
                                                                                                                                                 www.nature.com/npjcompumats\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  ARTICLE                  OPEN\par
\par
                  On the mechanistic origins of maximum strength\par
                  in nanocrystalline metals\par
                                   1                                                                                                                                    1\u9993?\par
                  Ankit Gupta          , Jacob Gruber1, Satish S. Rajaram        2\par
                                                                                     , Gregory B. Thompson3, David L. McDowell4 and Garritt J. Tucker\par
\par
\par
                      The maximum strength of polycrystalline metals/alloys has been suggested to occur at nanoscale grain sizes where the governing\par
                      deformation mechanism transitions from dislocation plasticity to grain boundary mediated deformation. Despite tremendous\par
                      progress recently uncovering links between transitions in nanoscale mechanisms and peak strength, the scienti\u64257?c literature is\par
                      mostly devoid of any quantitative support, owing to the dif\u64257?culty in measuring the resolved contribution of individual mechanisms\par
                      to microstructural strain accommodation. In this study, the contribution of individual nanoscale mechanisms to the overall\par
                      deformation of nanocrystalline Ni is calculated from atomistic simulations leveraging continuum-based kinematic metrics to\par
                      compute mechanistic contributions to microstructural strain. By employing such a quantitative approach to analyze deformation\par
                      behavior, it is shown that the realization of maximum strength in nanocrystalline metals corresponds to a grain size regime where\par
                      the operative nanoscale mechanisms transition, and are thus equally competing to accommodate strain. However, the transition\par
                      occurs between intergranular and intragranular mediated mechanisms, as it is found that dislocation plasticity alone is not the\par
                      governing mechanism at all grain sizes above the peak strength regime.\par
1234567890():,;\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                      npj Computational Materials (2020)6:153 ; https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-020-00425-0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                  INTRODUCTION                                                                            One major gap is regarding the present understanding of the\par
                  Materials scientists have long sought to understand and control                      role of individual mechanisms in the deformation of NC materials,\par
                  functional properties, such as mechanical strength, of materials                     which stems predominantly from a qualitative analysis of the\par
                  through fundamental knowledge of chemistry and structure (from                       mechanical behavior, as pointed out by Spearot et al22. In the\par
                  atoms to the continuum). In the realm of metals and metallic                         majority of seminal studies, the operative nanoscale deformation\par
                  alloys, a signi\u64257?cant number of efforts over the past half century                    mechanisms in disparate grain size regimes were established\par
                  have uncovered a seemingly ubiquitous trend regarding increases                      mostly from the structural characterization of NC samples by\par
                  in mechanical strength and hardness with decreasing average                          roughly observing the amount of dislocation slip or twinning in\par
                  grain size of a polycrystal\u8212?the so called \u8216?Hall\u8211?Petch\u8217? relation-                     the deformed structures8,9,16,18\u8211?20. In a few MD studies, the\par
                  ship1,2. The hardening trend continues well into the nanocrystal-                    governing deformation mechanisms were at most suggested\par
                  line (NC) regime (grain size <100 nm)3\u8211?5, with a decrease in slope                   based on indirect evidences, such as the number (or fraction) of\par
                  of the Hall\u8211?Petch relationship reported in this regime6,7. However,                  atoms participating in a given mechanism25. Yet the relative\par
                  the trend appears to reverse below a critical grain size (<20 nm).                   contributions of individual mechanisms (e.g., dislocation slip,\par
                  Softening in the strength and hardness of NC materials at such                       twinning, GB sliding/migration, etc.) towards the overall deforma-\par
                  small grain sizes is observed in several experimental studies and                    tion should ideally be determined by the fraction of strain\par
                  also supported by Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations8\u8211?12. The                       accommodated by each of these mechanisms during deformation,\par
                  maxima in the strength of NC metals were typically observed in a                     relative to the total strain accommodation within the material.\par
                  grain-size regime of 10\u8211?20 nm in these studies. The softening                        Quanti\u64257?cation of the governing deformation mechanisms directly\par
                  regime is generally attributed to a change in the governing                          from the strain accommodated by individual mechanisms is\par
                  deformation mechanism from dislocation-based to grain bound-                         limited to a very few studies26\u8211?29. The quanti\u64257?cation of deforma-\par
                  ary (GB) mediated deformation because of high interfacial volume                     tion mechanisms is necessary for verifying the notion that the\par
                  fraction and minimal concentration of existing intragranular                         maximum strength corresponds to a grain size at which the\par
                  defects at the smallest of grain sizes10,13\u8211?16. It is further argued                 governing deformation mechanism transitions from dislocation to\par
                  that the grain-size where the transition in the governing                            GB mediated processes. Some previous works have quanti\u64257?ed the\par
                  deformation mechanism occurs, should correspond to maximum                           mechanistic crossover based on in\u64258?ections observed in additional\par
                  strength17\u8211?20. The peak strength in several theoretical models is in                 mechanical properties, such as plastic strain rate17, activation\par
                  fact de\u64257?ned by the cross-over between the scaling laws for the                       volume30,31, activation enthalpy31; or from atomic fractions of\par
                  strength of NC materials in the softening and the hardening                          different defect structures32. However, the notion relating the\par
                  regimes21. Comprehensive reviews underlining the current state                       maximum strength to the mechanistic cross-over, has not been\par
                  and the existing gaps in the understanding of mechanical                             veri\u64257?ed directly from the strain accommodated by individual\par
                  behavior of NC materials are available in the scienti\u64257?c litera-                      mechanisms, in any previous study. The only such investigation, to\par
                  ture22\u8211?24.                                                                           the best of the authors\u8217? knowledge, was presented by Vo et al.33,\par
\par
                  1\par
                   Colorado School of Mines, Mechanical Engineering, Golden, CO 80401, USA. 2Department of Mechanical Engineering, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.\par
                  3\par
                   Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL 35487, USA. 4Department of Mechanical Engineering, Georgia Institute of\par
                  Technology, Atlanta, GA 30332, USA. \u9993?email: tucker@mines.edu\par
\par
\par
                  Published in partnership with the Shanghai Institute of Ceramics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences\par
                                                                              A. Gupta et al.\par
                  2\par
                      although their discussion was mainly focused on the plastic                alloy is presented, to further highlight the signi\u64257?cance of the\par
                      component of strain.                                                       \u64257?ndings of this study with respect to shifting the strongest grain\par
                         This study investigates the mechanical behavior of NC Ni under          size regime in NC alloys by varying the contributions of underlying\par
                      uniaxial tension as a function of average grain size using MD              mechanisms, where the trends agree well with available\par
                      simulations. In contrast to the majority of previous investigations,       experimental data.\par
                      we employ a set of post-processing metrics, based on continuum\par
                      mechanics, to calculate the contribution of various mechanisms to\par
                      the overall deformation by resolving the associated fraction of            RESULTS AND DISCUSSION\par
                      total strain accommodation to individual operative mechanisms              Mechanical behavior of NC Ni\par
                      during deformation. The mechanism whose contribution to total              In order to probe the mechanical behavior as a function of grain\par
                      strain accommodation is greater than 50%, is identi\u64257?ed as the              size, we performed MD simulations on 3D atomistic structures of\par
                      governing deformation mechanism. This quantitative approach                NC Ni with average grain sizes ranging from 6 nm to 20 nm. NC\par
                      reveals that while GB-based mechanisms govern the mechanical               structures were loaded uniaxially at 300 K to a total tensile strain\par
                      response during plastic \u64258?ow in the softening regime, in agreement          of 12% at constant rate of 108 s\u8722?1. More details regarding the\par
                      with previous works, dislocation-mediated plasticity by itself is not      generation and tensile testing of these structures can be found in\par
                      the governing deformation mechanism in the hardening regime                the \u8220?Methods\u8221? section. Figure 1a, b shows the average stress-strain\par
                      at grain sizes below 20 nm. Instead we show it is the collective           response of different samples with varying average grain size. All\par
                      contribution of all intragranular deformation mechanisms that              curves show an initial elastic deformation regime, where stress\par
                      governs the overall response of NC structures in this part of the          increases linearly with strain. The initial elastic stiffness (slope of\par
                      hardening regime. Importantly, it is also shown that the maximum           the curve below 1% strain) increases with increasing grain size, in\par
                      strength (using calculated \u64258?ow stress) occurs within a range of            agreement with reported experimental trends34,35. Since MD\par
                      grain size at which the governing deformation mechanism                    simulations are at much higher strain rates then what is typically\par
                      transitions from intergranular (i.e., GB-mediated) to intragranular        achieved experimentally, such agreement adds con\u64257?dence in\par
                      (IG)-based mechanisms. However, these intragranular mechanisms             linking simulations to experimental observations. Beyond 1%\par
                      are not solely de\u64257?ned by dislocation slip, as suggested in past            strain, the curves begin to deviate from the apparent linear stress-\par
1234567890():,;\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                      studies, but also include contributions from deformation twinning          strain behavior. The deviation from linearity is generally\par
                      and elastic lattice deformation.                                           attributed to activation of several microplasticity events in NC\par
                         The maximum strength corresponding to the grain size regime             structures27,36\u8211?38. The linear regime ends completely around 3\u8211?4%\par
                      at which the governing mechanism transitions, is characterized by          strain in all grain size structures after macroscopic yielding of the\par
                      an equal accommodation of the total strain between intergranular           samples. The grain size dependent yielding behavior of NC metals\par
                      and intragranular mechanisms during \u64258?ow. In other words, the               including the onset of plasticity is discussed in-depth in our\par
                      dominant deformation mechanisms are equally competing with                 previous work36. Gradual softening can be observed in the stress\par
                      each other to accommodate microstructural strain. The validity of          response prior to \u64258?ow, especially for large grain size structures. In\par
                      the notion relating the maximum strength to an equal competi-              this work, we mainly focus on the deformation behavior in the\par
                      tion of nanoscale mechanisms (IG versus GB), is further examined           \u64258?ow regime beyond 5% strain, when most of the strain\par
                      individually for elastic and plastic components of strain and in the       accommodation becomes plastic in nature. The \u64258?ow stress was\par
                      context of potential limitations or artifacts of MD simulations, such      calculated by averaging stress values in this regime between\par
                      as the high strain rate. Finally, the mechanical behavior of a NC Ni       5\u8211?12% strain.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                      Fig. 1 Mechanical behavior of NC Ni. Stress-strain curves obtained from the uniaxial tension MD simulations of NC structures with average\par
                      grain size ranging from (a) 6\u8211?12 nm and (b) 12\u8211?20 nm (initial elastic stiffness values are listed in the table). (c) Variation of \u64258?ow stress as a\par
                      function of average grain size of NC structures.\par
\par
\par
                      npj Computational Materials (2020) 153         Published in partnership with the Shanghai Institute of Ceramics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences\par
                                                                            A. Gupta et al.\par
                                                                                                                                                   3\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 2 Deformation mechanisms in NC Ni. Slices through the NC Ni structures of average grain size of 16 nm (a, c) and 6 nm (b, d), with atoms\par
colored according to the identi\u64257?ed nanoscale deformation mechanisms (a, b), blue: full slip, green: partial slip, red: twinning, gray: GBs, and\par
von Mises strain accommodation (c, d) at 12% applied strain. Percentages of total strain accommodation by individual deformation\par
mechanisms, as a function of applied strain, during uniaxial loading of (e) 16nm and (f) 6 nm grain size NC structures.\par
\par
   Figure 1c shows the variation of \u64258?ow stress as a function of             vector, structural environment and kinematic signatures of\par
average grain size obtained from the tensile loading simulations            deformation (see \u8220?Methods\u8221? section). Figure 2a, b shows atoms\par
of NC Ni. Each data point is the average of the \u64258?ow-stress values           sheared by different deformation mechanisms through slices of\par
calculated from \u64257?ve different simulations at every grain size and           NC Ni structures of 16 nm and 6 nm grain size, respectively, at the\par
the error bars represent the standard deviation in the values. It           end of tensile loading simulation, i.e., 12% applied strain. The\par
should be noted here that the grain sizes mentioned here and in             complete evolution of these structures with strain is presented in\par
the rest of the study, are initial grain sizes of the NC structures         Supplementary Movies 1 and 2, respectively. Atoms that deformed\par
before tensile loading. Some grain growth is noticed after tensile          by either dislocations (partial or full), twinning or GB-based\par
loading; the extent of which decreases with increasing grain size.          mechanisms are shown in these structures. The remaining grain\par
After 12% applied strain, the average grain size increased by               atoms (rendered invisible) deformed in an elastic manner. The\par
1.09 nm and 0.41 nm for NC Ni structures with initial grain sizes of        degree of twinning appears to be small in both grain size\par
6 nm and 20 nm, respectively. As clearly shown, the \u64258?ow stress              structures. The 16 nm grain structure lying in the hardening\par
increases when the grain size decreases from 20 nm to 12 nm (i.e.,          regime of the \u64258?ow stress-grain size plot, reveals more dislocation\par
the hardening regime) but then decreases when the grain size                activity than the 6 nm NC structure, which lies in the softening\par
reduces below 12 nm (i.e., the softening regime). In terms of the           regime. In many earlier seminal studies9,19,20, dislocations and GBs\par
calculated \u64258?ow stress, the 12 nm grain size structure is found to be        were established as the governing deformation mechanisms in\par
the strongest. As noted above, previous studies have also reported          the hardening and the softening regimes, respectively, based\par
the presence of hardening and softening regimes in the strength             solely on such qualitative analysis of deformed images or\par
versus grain size plots of several metals with a maximum                    micrographs in the two regimes and roughly comparing the\par
appearing in the NC regime23. We further apply a quantitative               amount of defect structures. However, as mentioned earlier, it is\par
analysis to investigate the competition/cooperation of the                  not the number of atoms in each defect or mechanism, but the\par
nanoscale deformation mechanisms to accommodate microstruc-                 total strain accommodated by those atoms participating in a given\par
tural strain at various grain sizes. A set of recently developed post-      mechanism, which should ideally determine the contribution of\par
processing tools39 were employed to distinguish individual                  that mechanism to the overall deformation. Therefore, in order to\par
mechanisms operating in NC structures and calculate their relative          calculate the amount of strain accommodated within individual\par
contributions to microstructural strain accommodation.                      mechanisms, the strain tensors of atoms in the NC structure were\par
                                                                            computed using continuum-based kinematic metrics26,28,40,41 by\par
Deformation mechanisms in NC Ni                                             mapping changes in local atomic neighborhoods during deforma-\par
Atoms participating in various deformation mechanisms (i.e.,                tion. From the calculated atomic strain tensors and the identi\u64257?ca-\par
dislocation slip, deformation twinning, elastic lattice strain, and GB      tion of atoms participating in various deformation mechanisms,\par
deformation) were identi\u64257?ed based upon the calculated slip                  the fraction of strain accommodated by individual mechanisms\par
\par
Published in partnership with the Shanghai Institute of Ceramics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences     npj Computational Materials (2020) 153\par
                                                            A. Gupta et al.\par
4\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
    Fig. 3 Competition of deformation mechanisms. Variation of percentages of total strain accommodation by (a) individual mechanisms and\par
    (b) intragranular (IG) versus intergranular (GB) mechanisms during \u64258?ow; and variation of (c) percentages of total atoms and (d) strain-per atom\par
    associated with individual mechanisms during \u64258?ow, as a function of average grain size of NC Ni structures.\par
\par
    was obtained. Further details can be found in the \u8221?Methods\u8221?               during the initial elastic regime and yielding, they eventually\par
    section.                                                                  plateau during the \u64258?ow regime as also re\u64258?ected in \u64258?attening out\par
       In Fig. 2c, d, the slices of 16 nm and 6 nm average grain size         of the stress response beyond 5% strain. In this \u64258?ow regime, the\par
    structures are colored according to the von Mises (VM) strain in          total contribution of intragranular plastic deformation mechan-\par
    atoms, obtained from the atomic strain tensors calculated at 12%          isms (dislocation slip + twinning) towards strain accommodation\par
    applied strain. In particular, atoms associated with the plastic          is greater than the contribution of elastic deformation of grains,\par
    deformation mechanisms show large VM strain. Atomic VM strain             with dislocation slip accommodating more strain than twinning.\par
    is generally higher in the GB regions than the twinned or slipped         The percentage of total strain accommodated by the GBs also\par
    intragranular regions. The remaining atoms that underwent elastic         increases during the \u64258?ow regime where the majority of the strain\par
    deformation can be seen as the black shaded regions with small            accommodation is also plastic in nature. It is seen for the 6 nm\par
    VM strain values. The percentages of total strain accommodation           case, most of the strain (around 70%) is accommodated by the\par
    by individual mechanisms are plotted in Fig. 2e, f, as a function of      GBs during \u64258?ow, indicating that GBs can be quantitatively\par
    applied strain for the 16 nm and 6 nm grain size structures,              identi\u64257?ed as the governing deformation mechanism for this\par
    respectively. Plotted values are averages of the results from \u64257?ve         grain-size in the softening regime. Although the contribution of\par
    different simulations for each grain size. Similar plots for rest of      dislocation mechanisms to strain accommodation during \u64258?ow is\par
    the grain sizes are shown in supplementary Fig. S1. In both grain         higher in the 16 nm case (Fig. 2e), the actual percentage is only\par
    size structures, total tensile strain is accommodated in a shared         around 25%. Since most of the strain during \u64258?ow is not\par
    manner between GBs, dislocation slip, twinning, and elastic               accommodated by dislocation slip, dislocation plasticity cannot\par
    deformation of grains (grain-elastic). Most of the strain is              be suggested as the governing deformation mechanisms for the\par
    accommodated by GBs and elastic deformation of grains during              16 nm grain-size structure in the hardening regime. This is found\par
    initial loading, corresponding to the initial linear elastic regime in    to be true for higher grain sizes (i.e., up to 20 nm) as well.\par
    the stress-strain curves. Importantly, it will be shown in the next          To more clearly show the effect of NC grain size on the\par
    section, where the elastic and plastic components of strain are           governing deformation mechanism, averages of the percentages\par
    delineated, that most of the strain accommodated by GBs during            of total strain accommodation by individual mechanisms during\par
    this early stage of loading is also elastic in nature. The ratio of       the \u64258?ow regime (5\u8211?12% strain) of mechanical loading were\par
    strain accommodation between grains to GBs during the initial             calculated for every grain size structure and plotted in Fig. 3a. For\par
    linear elastic regime is higher in the 16 nm grain size than the          a single grain size, the plotted value is the mean of the \u64257?ve\par
    6 nm gain size structure.                                                 different simulations, and the error bar represents the standard\par
       The percentages of total strain accommodated by dislocations           deviation. Since most of the strain (>50%) during \u64258?ow is\par
    and twinning mechanisms start to rise around 3\u8211?4% strain in both          accommodated by the GBs for grain sizes lying in the softening\par
    grain size structures (Fig. 2e, f) representative of yielding and         regime (6\u8211?12 nm), GB mediated deformation processes (e.g.,\par
    aligning with the end of the initial elastic regime. While the            sliding, migration, atomic shuf\u64258?ing, etc.) can be established as\par
    relative contributions of various mechanisms change rapidly               the governing deformation mechanism in this regime. However,\par
\par
    npj Computational Materials (2020) 153         Published in partnership with the Shanghai Institute of Ceramics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences\par
                                                                            A. Gupta et al.\par
                                                                                                                                                     5\par
even for the largest grain size structure (i.e., 20 nm) simulated in        strain accommodated in the intragranular and GB mechanisms\par
the hardening regime, the percentage of total strain accommo-               during \u64258?ow, are equal. The strain-per-atom associated with each\par
dated by dislocation slip during \u64258?ow is just 30% (Fig. 3a). Based           mechanism, obtained simply up on dividing the total strain by\par
upon the fraction of strain accommodation, dislocation plasticity           number of atoms in a given mechanism, is averaged over the \u64258?ow\par
by itself cannot be identi\u64257?ed as the governing deformation                  regime and plotted in Fig. 3d, as function of grain size. As\par
mechanism in the hardening regime for structures with grain size            expected, intragranular plastic deformation mechanisms (i.e,\par
up to 20 nm. While dislocation slip will eventually govern the              dislocations and twinning) accommodate more strain-per-atom\par
deformation at larger grain sizes (>20 nm), it is not found to be           as compared to the elastic deformation of grain, across all grain\par
necessarily true of all grain sizes in the hardening regime.                sizes. The strain-per-atom associated with GB mechanisms is also\par
Moreover, it is generally suggested in the literature that NC               higher and comparable to that of intragranular plastic mechan-\par
metals should exhibit maximum strength at a grain size where the            isms, however, the former also has some elastic contribution. It\par
governing deformation mechanism transitions from dislocation                might then be informative to delineate the elastic and plastic\par
slip to GB-mediated processes17,18. Our results do not support this         components of strain accommodated in intragranular and GB\par
conjecture, as the strongest grain size calculated in this study is         mechanisms and check if the notion relating the maximum\par
12 nm, but according to Fig. 3a, the transition between disloca-            strength to an equal competition of nanoscale mechanisms, holds\par
tions and GB mechanisms will occur at a grain size greater than             independently for each component.\par
20 nm. Instead of comparing the contribution of GB mechanisms\par
with only dislocation mechanism, it is likely more logical to\par
compare with the contribution of all intragranular mechanisms               Elastic and plastic components of strain\par
because GB mechanisms also encompass the contributions of a                 Plastic strain was computed from the atomic strain tensors after\par
variety of deformation processes including elastic contributions.           dynamically relaxing the deformed NC structures at several strain\par
   The contributions or the percentages of total strain accom-              increments to a zero-stress con\u64257?guration (see \u8220?Methods\u8221? section).\par
modation during \u64258?ow within twinning, dislocation, and grain-                Elastic strain was obtained by subtracting the plastic strain from\par
elastic mechanisms were summed up to represent the total                    the total applied strain, calculated from the atomic strain tensors\par
contribution of intragranular (IG) deformation. The intragranular           in the deformed NC structures before relaxation. Elastic strain can\par
contributions are compared with the contributions of GB                     also be calculated from the stress-strain response of the sample\par
mechanisms for different grain sizes in Fig. 3b. Clearly, GB-               during uniaxial loading, simply as \u963? divided by E33. Here, \u963? is the\par
mediated mechanisms accommodate more strain during \u64258?ow                      stress value at the corresponding strain level and E is the initial\par
than intragranular mechanisms in the softening regime (6\u8211?12 nm              elastic stiffness of the sample. Figure 4a plots the elastic\par
grain size). Whereas in the hardening regime (14\u8211?20 nm grain                component of strain (as percent total strain), obtained from the\par
size), the percentage of total strain accommodation during \u64258?ow              atomic strain tensors, as a function of applied strain for the 6 nm,\par
within intragranular mechanisms is higher. These data and trends            12 nm, and 16 nm grain size NC Ni structures. The elastic\par
suggest that all intragranular mechanisms acting together, not just         component of strain, calculated from the sample\u8217?s stress strain\par
dislocation slip or twinning by itself, govern the mechanical               response, is also shown for the 6 nm grain size structure. The\par
response of NC metals in the hardening regime. Figure 3b further            elastic strain calculated from the kinematic metrics at the atomic\par
demonstrates that the cross-over between the contributions of               scale matches well with the values obtained from the macroscopic\par
GB-based (i.e., intergranular) and intragranular mechanisms occurs          stress-strain response of the simulation cell. It demonstrates the\par
in the 12\u8211?14 nm grain size regime, around which the \u64258?ow stress              high accuracy of the kinematic metrics, especially the method\par
reaches a maximum. It indicates that the strongest grain size               used to approximate the continuum strain \u64257?eld around each atom.\par
regime does correspond to a transition in the governing                        In addition, the plots (Fig. 4a) show that the elastic strain\par
deformation mechanism but from intergranular (i.e., GB-based)               decreases below 50% in all grain size structures around 5%\par
to intragranular. The latter includes the contribution of deforma-          applied strain\u8212? signifying the beginning of \u64258?ow when most of\par
tion twinning and elastic lattice deformation, not just dislocation         the strain accommodation becomes plastic in nature. Figure 4b, c\par
slip as previously suggested in the literature. At grain sizes where        show percentages of total strain accommodation in intragranular\par
this transition occurs (12\u8211?14 nm), the total strain is equally\par
                                                                            (IG) and intergranular (GB) mechanisms, delineated into plastic\par
accommodated between intergranular and intragranular mechan-\par
                                                                            and elastic components, as a function of applied strain for the\par
isms during \u64258?ow (Fig. 3b). Therefore, these results indicate that\par
                                                                            16 nm and 6 nm grain size structures, respectively. Clearly, most of\par
maximum strength in NC metals is observed at a grain-size regime\par
                                                                            the strain accommodation in both grains and GBs is initially elastic\par
where intragranular and GB-based deformation mechanisms are\par
equally competing to accommodate strain during the \u64258?ow regime.              in nature while the plastic strain dominates during the \u64258?ow\par
   As discussed before, some previous studies have also quanti\u64257?ed           regime for the two grain size structures, hence, con\u64257?rming our\par
the mechanistic crossover in terms of percentage/fraction of                previous assertions. However, the elastic component of strain does\par
atoms participating in different mechanisms. In order to present            not completely vanish in the \u64258?ow regime. It can be observed from\par
such analysis, the percentages of total atoms participating in              these plots that the contribution of elastic strain in the \u64258?ow\par
individual mechanisms are calculated from the metric code. The              regime is higher compared to what is typically observed in coarse-\par
values are averaged over the \u64258?ow regime and plotted as function             grained metals. The source of relatively large elastic strain during\par
of grain size in Fig. 3c. It can be observed from the \u64257?gure that            the \u64258?ow regime is generally the high overall stress required to\par
grain-elastic contributes the most, in terms of percentage of               carry plastic deformation in NC metals. As discussed earlier, the\par
atoms, across all grain-sizes. Hence, no cross-over is noticed              elastic component of strain at any point during the loading is\par
between the percentages of total atoms participating in                     equal to the applied stress \u963? divided by the initial elastic stiffness\par
intragranular and GB mechanisms at any grain size. It should also           E33. While the variation in elastic modulus can be small, the yield\par
be noted that a cross-over is observed between the percentage of            and \u64258?ow stresses increase signi\u64257?cantly as grain size approaches\par
atoms in dislocation and GB mechanisms at a grain size regime of            the NC regime38, which also results in large amount of elastic\par
18\u8211?20 nm, however, it does not correspond to the strongest grain            strain prior to yielding or \u64258?ow. Since, after yielding, only small\par
size regime. The cross-over regime does not shift much even                 stress relaxations are noticed in the stress-strain curves of NC\par
when the percentages of twinned and dislocation atoms are                   metals (Fig. 1), they retain majority of the large elastic strain\par
combined. Therefore, it can be said that the maximum strength in            acquired before yielding, during the \u64258?ow regime as well.\par
NC metals is only observed at a grain size regime, where the total          Furthermore, the competition between intragranular and\par
\par
Published in partnership with the Shanghai Institute of Ceramics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences     npj Computational Materials (2020) 153\par
                                                             A. Gupta et al.\par
6\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
    Fig. 4 Elastic versus plastic deformation. (a) Variation of elastic component of strain calculated as percent total strain and obtained from the\par
    atomic strain tensors, as a function of applied strain during uniaxial tensile loading of 6 nm, 12 nm and 16 nm grain size NC Ni structures\par
    (elastic strain calculated from the sample\u8217?s stress strain response is also plotted for the 6 nm case). Percentages of total strain accommodation\par
    by intragranular (IG) and intergranular (GB) mechanisms, delineated into plastic and elastic components, as a function of applied strain for the\par
    (b) 16 nm and (c) 6 nm grain size structures. (d) Percentages of total strain accommodation by IG and GB mechanisms during \u64258?ow, delineated\par
    into plastic and elastic components, as a function of average grain size of NC Ni structures.\par
\par
    GB-mediated deformation mechanisms in accommodating elastic                 performed uniaxial tensile loading simulations of the NC Ni\par
    and plastic deformation can be studied from these plots.                    structures of different grain sizes at the strain rate of 1010 s\u8722?1.\par
        The average contributions of intragranular and GB mechanisms            Consideration of lower strain rate MD simulations, while desirable,\par
    towards total strain accommodation during the \u64258?ow regime are                was not feasible with the current computational resources. Figure\par
    plotted as a function of grain size in Fig. 4d. The percentage of           5a shows the stress-strain response during tensile loading of the\par
    total strain accommodation are further broken down into its                 16 nm grain size NC structure at two different strain rates (e.g., 108\par
    elastic and plastic components for the 6 nm, 12 nm, and 16 nm               s\u8722?1, 1010 s\u8722?1). While the initial slope of the curves in the linear\par
    grain size structures in order to investigate the competition of            elastic regime is independent of the strain rate, the response\par
    deformation mechanisms in the two components individually. As               diverges signi\u64257?cantly as strain increases further. The linear elastic\par
    compared to the grain size where the contributions of inter-                regime extends to larger applied strains at 1010 s\u8722?1, indicating\par
    granular and intragranular mechanisms towards total strain                  delayed onset of plasticity at higher strain rate. As a result, the\par
    accommodation become equal (i.e., 12\u8211?14 nm), the cross-over                 peak in the stress-strain curve appears near 7% strain at 1010 s\u8722?1,\par
    between the two mechanisms occurs at a smaller grain size for the           shifting from 3% strain at 108 s\u8722?1. The peak stress also increases in\par
    elastic component and at a larger grain size for the plastic                magnitude at higher strain rate. The stress response eventually\par
    component. Therefore, we can comment on the notion relating                 \u64258?attens out to a steady state \u64258?ow in the two cases. However,\par
    the maximum strength of NC metals to the grain size where                   values of both the \u64258?ow stress and the applied strain where the\par
    intragranular and GB mechanisms contribute equally to strain                \u64258?ow regime begins, are higher at 1010 s\u8722?1. Similar stress-strain\par
    accommodation during \u64258?ow; this notion holds for total strain, but           behaviors of NC structures at different MD strain rates were also\par
    not necessarily for its elastic and plastic components individually.        reported in previous modeling studies33,42,43.\par
    It should be noted here that the relative contribution of elastic and          The delayed onset of plasticity at higher strain rate is also\par
    plastic components of strain also depends upon the loading strain           re\u64258?ected in Fig. 5b. It plots the percentages of total strain\par
    rate, which is extremely large in MD simulations. Thereafter, it            accommodation by individual mechanisms in the 16 nm grain size\par
    might be interesting to discuss these \u64257?ndings within the scope of           structure, as a function of applied strain, at two different rates of\par
    artifacts of MD simulations such as high strain rate.                       108 s\u8722?1 and 1010 s\u8722?1. Similar plots for rest of the grain sizes are\par
                                                                                shown in supplementary Fig. S2. The plot shows that most of\par
    Effect of strain rate                                                       strain is accommodated in the elastic deformation of grains up to\par
    One of the biggest limitations of MD loading simulations is often           7% applied strain during loading at 1010 s\u8722?1. The contributions of\par
    the inherent high strain rates encountered during deformation42.            intragranular plastic deformation mechanisms such as dislocation\par
    The simulations described to this point were conducted at a strain          slip and twinning only start to increase after 6\u8211?7% strain at higher\par
    rate of 108 s\u8722?1. To explore the effect of strain rate on the validity of    strain rate. The delayed yielding further causes the \u64258?ow regime to\par
    the mechanistic competition notion discussed above, we also                 shift to higher strain values in the corresponding stress-strain plot\par
\par
    npj Computational Materials (2020) 153           Published in partnership with the Shanghai Institute of Ceramics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences\par
                                                                            A. Gupta et al.\par
                                                                                                                                                     7\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 5 Effect of strain rate. (a) Stress-strain response of 16 nm grain size NC Ni structure obtained from the uniaxial tension MD simulations\par
performed at strain rates of 108s\u8722?1 and 1010s\u8722?1. (b) Percentages of total strain accommodation by deformation mechanisms, as a function of\par
applied strain, during uniaxial loading of 16 nm structure at strain rates of 108s\u8722?1 and 1010s\u8722?1. Variation of (c) percentages of total strain\par
accommodation by intragranular (IG) and intergranular (GB) mechanisms during \u64258?ow and (d) \u64258?ow stress, as a function of average grain size of\par
NC Ni structures, obtained from the loading at strain rates of 108s\u8722?1 and 1010s\u8722?1.\par
\par
\par
(Fig. 5a). As seen in Fig. 5b, the contributions of individual              consequence, the cross-over between the two mechanisms occurs\par
mechanisms at 9% applied strain at 1010 s\u8722?1 and at 5% strain at             within a grain size regime of 16\u8211?18 nm at 1010 s\u8722?1. Importantly,\par
108 s\u8722?1 are similar for the 16 nm grain size structure. Therefore, the      the maximum \u64258?ow stress (plotted in Fig. 5d as a function of grain\par
exact strain value, marking the beginning of the \u64258?ow regime at              size) also shifts to a larger grain size (18 nm), corresponding to the\par
1010 s\u8722?1 strain rate, is taken to be 9%, so that the contributions of       grain size regime where the governing deformation mechanism\par
deformation mechanisms at the beginning of the \u64258?ow regime for               once again transitions. Therefore, it can be concluded that the\par
the two strain rates are comparable. It should also be noted that           notion relating the maximum strength to an equal competition of\par
the NC Ni structures were loaded up to a total tensile strain of 16%        nanoscale mechanisms to accommodate strain during \u64258?ow, holds\par
at 1010 s\u8722?1 strain rate to ensure the same length of the \u64258?ow                true even at the strain rate of 1010 s\u8722?1.\par
regime as the lower strain rate. Figure 5b also demonstrates that              The validity of this notion for the two high strain rates\par
in the 16 nm grain structure, the overall contribution of                   employed in MD simulations suggests generality for NC materials,\par
intragranular plastic deformation mechanisms, such as dislocation           but detailed studies at much lower strain rates are needed for\par
slip, during \u64258?ow is smaller at 1010 s\u8722?1; instead, the percentage of         evaluation of this assertion. At strain rates more commonly\par
strain accommodated within GB mechanisms increases as                       observed in experiments, the strongest grain size regime might\par
compared to their relative contributions at 108 s\u8722?1. The reduced            shift to a smaller value, due to increased contribution of\par
contribution and the delayed activation of intragranular plastic            intragranular plastic deformation mechanisms. However, the exact\par
deformation mechanisms, particularly dislocation plasticity as              shift can only be determined from the amount of increase in\par
observed in this study, can be attributed to the enhanced                   dislocation/twinning activity at these small strain rates, something\par
dif\u64257?culty of dislocation nucleation and propagation at higher               which is not quanti\u64257?ed and out of scope of a MD study. It should\par
strain rates, as reported in the literature44\u8211?46.                           also be noted here that any extrapolation in the value of strongest\par
   Similar trends in the variation of the contributions of                  grain size from simulation to experimental strain rates must be\par
intergranular (GB) and intragranular (IG) deformation mechanisms            done with extreme care because the contributions of individual\par
during the \u64258?ow regime, as a function of strain rate, can be                 deformation mechanisms might vary differently in disparate strain\par
observed across all grain sizes of the NC Ni structure in Fig. 5c. The      rate regimes. The strain rate sensitivity of the mechanical behavior\par
percentages of total strain accommodation at 1010 s\u8722?1 strain rate,          of NC metals, studied at different strain rates in several\par
averaged over the \u64258?ow regime, decrease in general for                       experimental and modeling studies33,43,44,47, suggest that the\par
intragranular mechanisms and increase for intergranular mechan-             changes in contribution of individual mechanisms might be less\par
isms across all grain sizes. However, the relative changes in the           pronounced when strain rate decreases from 108 s\u8722?1 to experi-\par
magnitude are higher for larger grain size structures. As a                 mental strain rates in comparison to the changes observed in this\par
\par
Published in partnership with the Shanghai Institute of Ceramics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences     npj Computational Materials (2020) 153\par
                                                             A. Gupta et al.\par
8\par
    study, when the strain rate was varied from 108 to 1010 s\u8722?1.                was also found to be smaller in Ni\u8211?P, in which case, the average\par
    Therefore, the actual shift in the strongest grain size at                  grain size increased by 0.32 nm and 0.12 nm for NC Ni structures\par
    experimental strain rates might be smaller than one would expect            with initial grain sizes of 6 nm and 20 nm, respectively. These\par
    from the extrapolation of simulation results. Moreover, at very             results indicate that P segregation strengthens the NC Ni GBs\par
    small strain rates (<1 s\u8722?1), typically used in experiments, the             against grain growth, that is perpendicular to the boundaries, and\par
    contribution of GB mechanisms may rise again, due to activation             also against shear in parallel, as re\u64258?ected by increase in the values\par
    of diffusion assisted sliding/creep processes44,48. The strongest           of \u64258?ow stress. Furthermore, the strongest grain size shifts from\par
    grain size can, thus, be expected to again shift to higher values at        12 nm in pure Ni to 10 nm in Ni\u8211?P.\par
    smallest of strain rates, where diffusion assisted GB mechanisms               Hardness values taken from experimental studies of NC Ni52\u8211?55\par
    are active48. Thus, it might even be possible that the strongest            and Ni\u8211?P50,56\u8211?58 samples, are plotted as a function of grain size in\par
    grain size value at two drastically different strain rates are equal, as    Fig. 6b. If the hardness values are scaled down by a factor of three\par
    also proposed by Li et al. 44.                                              to facilitate a rough comparison with the \u64258?ow stress values59, we\par
       With the caveats discussed above, we regard the present MD               \u64257?nd that the simulation results are higher in magnitude than\par
    simulations as offering utility in uncovering fundamental trends            experiments for both Ni and Ni\u8211?P structures, typical of high strain\par
    regarding the complex deformation behavior of NC materials, as              rate employed in MD simulations42. The experimental and the\par
    also noted in previous studies42. These trends in NC behavior               modeling data can further differ in magnitude because of other\par
    obtained from atomistic simulations can provide valuable decision           artifacts of MD simulations; and speci\u64257?c aspects of experimental\par
    support for rationalizing the strongest grain size regime in NC             samples, such as grain size and orientation distributions, synthesis\par
    materials. To present such an example and to further assess the             routes, pre-existing impurity and defect content, intrinsic residual\par
    broader validity of these \u64257?ndings regarding mechanistic competi-            stress, overall solute concentration, and inherent errors in\par
    tion and maximum strength, we next consider alloyed NC                      experimental measurements60. However, since atomistic simula-\par
    structures. The addition of alloying elements can fundamentally             tions are capable of revealing proper trends regarding NC\par
    alter the role of individual mechanisms during deformation by               mechanical behavior, we can still compare trends in the variation\par
    changing their propensity to plastically deform. It has recently            of \u64258?ow stress and hardness data as a function of grain size and\par
    been demonstrated experimentally in NC alloys that segregation              solute content, as obtained from the simulations and experiments,\par
    of solute atoms to NC GBs shifted the strongest grain size to               respectively.\par
    smaller values20. It was attributed to improved GB stability arising           The simulation and the experimental data reveal some identical\par
    from solute segregation. Here, we show quantitatively that                  trends: (1) \u64258?ow stress and hardness values are higher in Ni\u8211?P than\par
    interfacial solute segregation fundamentally alters the landscape           Ni across all grain sizes, and (2) maxima in \u64258?ow stress and\par
    of competing nanoscale deformation mechanisms during \u64258?ow,                   hardness values occur at smaller grain sizes in Ni\u8211?P as compared\par
    thereby, shifting the strongest grain size regime in accordance             to Ni. The similar trends noticed in the simulation and the\par
    with the mechanistic competition conjecture discussed above.                experimental data lends further credence to the simulation results\par
                                                                                presented in this study. The shifting of strongest grain size regime\par
                                                                                to smaller values in Ni\u8211?P is also predicted by the notion relating\par
    Mechanical behavior of NC Ni\u8211?P                                              maximum strength to an equal competition of governing\par
    The Ni-P alloy system is selected for this study, since it has been         deformation mechanisms during \u64258?ow. Since, alloying strengthens\par
    shown experimentally to have improved strength and stability                the GBs in NC Ni\u8211?P, the contribution of GB-based deformation\par
    than NC Ni due to segregation of P atoms to Ni GBs49,50. Alloyed            mechanisms in accommodating strain during \u64258?ow should\par
    NC structures were generated from the NC Ni structures using                decrease across all grain sizes and the transition between the\par
    Monte Carlo (MC)/ MD simulations (see \u8220?Methods\u8221? section). In the            contributions of intragranular and GB mechanisms should, there-\par
    alloyed con\u64257?guration, P atoms were found to strongly segregate              fore, occur at a lower grain size. In order to test the validity of this\par
    to NC Ni GBs as seen experimentally51. Alloyed structures were              notion in the alloyed case, the relative strain contributions of\par
    then subjected to uniaxial tension MD simulations at a strain rate          underlying mechanisms in NC Ni\u8211?P are quanti\u64257?ed.\par
    of 108 s\u8722?1. Figure 6a shows the variation of \u64258?ow stress of alloyed             The change in the competition/cooperation of deformation\par
    NC Ni\u8211?P as a function of average grain size\u8212?NC Ni behavior at               mechanisms in NC structures as a function of alloying and grain\par
    108 s\u8722?1 strain rate is also shown for comparison. The data shows            size is illustrated in Fig. 7. Speci\u64257?cally, Fig. 7a shows slices through\par
    that Ni\u8211?P \u64258?ow stress magnitudes are greater than those of pure Ni           deformed NC structures where individual grains are colored\par
    across all grain sizes, exhibiting the expected strengthening               according to the ratio of strain accommodation in GBs to grain\par
    arising from P segregation to Ni GBs. The amount of grain growth            interior, computed from the kinematic metrics at 5% applied\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
    Fig. 6 Mechanical behavior of NC Ni\u8211?P. Variation of (a) \u64258?ow stress and (b) hardness of NC Ni and Ni\u8211?P structures, as a function of average\par
    grain size, obtained from the uniaxial tension MD simulation and several past experimental studies, respectively.\par
\par
\par
    npj Computational Materials (2020) 153           Published in partnership with the Shanghai Institute of Ceramics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences\par
                                                                            A. Gupta et al.\par
                                                                                                                                                             9\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 7 In\u64258?uence of alloying and grain size. (a) Slices through 6 nm and 16 nm grain size NC structures of Ni and Ni\u8211?P showing computed GB\par
to grain interior strain accommodation ratio for individual grains at 5% applied strain. (b) Percentages of total strain accommodation by\par
intragranular (IG) and intergranular (GB) mechanisms during \u64258?ow in NC Ni and Ni\u8211?P structures, as a function of their average grain size.\par
\par
strain. Strain within the majority of grains in NC Ni of 6 nm and           hardening regime. Furthermore, the results show that the notion\par
16 nm grain size is accommodated by intergranular (i.e., GB) and            holds only for total strain accommodation and not necessarily for\par
intragranular mechanisms, respectively. In Ni\u8211?P structures, the             its elastic and plastic components. The notion held at two MD\par
contribution of GB mechanisms decreases for both grain sizes,               strain rates tested in this study, further highlighting the effects of\par
demonstrating the expected GB strengthening arising from the                higher strain rate on the overall mechanical response of NC\par
presence of solute P atoms at NC Ni GBs. The in\u64258?uence of alloying           materials and the contributions of underlying mechanisms. The\par
and grain size on the overall competition of underlying nanoscale           behavioral trends revealed by the simulation data were found to\par
mechanisms is presented in Fig. 7b. The percentages of total strain         be in good agreement with the trends observed in experimental\par
accommodated within intragranular (IG) and GB mechanisms,                   data or reported in previous experimental and modeling studies.\par
averaged over the \u64258?ow regime, are shown as a function of average            Such agreements add con\u64257?dence in generalizing the \u64257?ndings of\par
grain size. Plots for individual grain sizes are shown in                   this simulation study.\par
supplementary Fig. S3. The contribution of GB-based deformation                Finally, the notion was veri\u64257?ed in alloyed NC Ni\u8211?P, where, the\par
mechanisms decreases while that of intragranular mechanisms                 strongest grain size was shown to shift to smaller values due to\par
increases in the alloyed case across all grain sizes. The results           decreased contributions of GB mechanisms, as suggested in past\par
match well with the changes in the relative contributions of                studies. The observed transition in the strongest grain size in NC\par
nanoscale mechanisms expected upon alloying, thereby, provid-               Ni\u8211?P, based on the insight gained through pure Ni, suggests that\par
ing additional validation to both the MD simulations in capturing           the strongest grain size regime in NC materials may possibly be\par
proper behavioral trends, and the kinematic metrics in accurately           tuned in other NC alloys by controlling the underlying operative\par
quantifying the simulated mechanical behavior. Furthermore, the             deformation mechanisms at the nanoscale. Alloying is just one of\par
transition between the two mechanisms happens at 10 nm grain                several methods that are traditionally utilized to alter the structure\par
size corresponding to the maximum \u64258?ow stress in NC Ni\u8211?P,                    and properties of NC materials. With the knowledge provided in\par
attesting that the strongest grain size still corresponds to an equal       this study of how these structural changes might fundamentally\par
competition between grain-based and GB-based deformation                    affect mechanistic competition, processing and chemistry routes\par
mechanisms towards strain accommodation. Therefore, it can be               may be rationally selected to shift the strongest grain size in NC\par
established that the notion relating the maximum strength to an             materials to values which can be manufactured and tailored to\par
equal competition of nanoscale mechanisms holds true in the                 each application. It will although require signi\u64257?cant research and\par
alloyed case as well.                                                       testing in different alloys and loading conditions such as creep\par
   In summary, we explicitly studied the notion relating the                where different operative mechanisms are competing or\par
maximum strength to a transition in the governing deformation               governing.\par
mechanisms from atomistic modeling by resolving the fraction of\par
total strain accommodated by individual mechanisms using post-\par
                                                                            METHODS\par
processing kinematic metrics. It was found that in NC Ni, the\par
maximum strength corresponds to the grain size regime where                 Generation of NC Ni structures\par
the governing mechanisms transition or equally compete to                   In this study, atomistic NC Ni structures of average grain size ranging from\par
accommodate strain during \u64258?ow, thus, verifying the notion.                  6 nm to 24 nm were created from phase \u64257?eld generated voxelated\par
                                                                            microstructure using the method outlined by Gruber et al.61. NC structures\par
However, dislocation plasticity was not found to be the sole                obtained from the phase \u64257?eld simulations tend to be more physically\par
governing deformation mechanism at all grain sizes in the                   representative of topologies of grains, GBs and triple junctions and\par
hardening regime contrary to the current understanding. Instead,            produce grain size distributions driven by thermodynamics of grain\par
it was shown that the combined contributions of all intragranular           growth61. In order to compute statistically averaged mechanical behavior,\par
mechanisms govern the response of NC materials in the                       \u64257?ve different instances of NC structures were created for every grain size. In\par
\par
\par
Published in partnership with the Shanghai Institute of Ceramics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences         npj Computational Materials (2020) 153\par
                                                                 A. Gupta et al.\par
10\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
     Fig. 8 Simulation Methodology. Atomistic NC structures of (a) Ni and (b) Ni\u8211?P of 6 nm grain average grain size (red: GB atoms, blue: FCC\par
     atoms, cyan: HCP atoms, white: P solute atoms; inset shows GB misorientation angle and axis distributions of NC Ni). (c) Schematic\par
     representation of the calculation of atomic deformation gradient tensor by approximating continuum material \u64257?eld around each atom using\par
     the nearest neighbor list.\par
\par
     each microstructural instance, the orientations of grains were chosen from    addition, the potential was parametrized against a large ab initio database\par
     different random distributions while employing identical microstructural      of energetics, lattice parameters and stress tensors of several con\u64257?gura-\par
     topologies. Interatomic interactions in NC Ni structures are modeled using    tions of Ni\u8211?P, including all intermetallic phases. Resulting NC structures\par
     an embedded-atom-method (EAM) style potential62. This potential is            were then subjected to hybrid MC\u8211?MD simulations. In the MC step, a pair\par
     parameterized to yield stacking fault energies similar to experimental        of P and Ni atoms were selected at random and swapped by probabilities\par
     values. Other key material properties such as lattice constant, phonon        dictated by Metropolis criteria68 at 300 K. Every 1000 MC steps were\par
     frequencies, vacancy formation energy were also \u64257?tted using ab initio         followed by thermal relaxation of the entire system for 1000 MD steps.\par
     calculations. All atomistic simulations in this study were performed using    Thermal equilibration was performed at 300 K using an isothermal-isobaric\par
     the LAMMPS software package63.                                                ensemble while maintaining zero normal pressure at periodic boundaries\par
        GBs in NC Ni structures were thermally equilibrated at high temperature    in all dimensions. The hybrid MC\u8211?MD simulation continued until the\par
     (0.5 Tm) for 1 ns to reach local minima in energy rapidly64. Grain interior   system\u8217?s total potential energy reached a local minimum. In the \u64257?nal\par
     atoms were \u64257?xed during the high temperature equilibration to avoid grain      con\u64257?guration, P atoms segregated to NC Ni GBs across all grain sizes in\par
     growth; and the high temperature equilibration was followed by thermal        agreement with experiments49. An in-depth analysis of the interfacial\par
     equilibration of the whole system at 300 K with no constraint on any          solute segregation behavior in NC Ni\u8211?P as a function of GB character is\par
     atoms. The equilibration was performed for an additional nanosecond,          provided in our recent investigation51. The bulk solute contents were\par
     after which systems\u8217? potential energies became constant over time. The        chosen such that the total extent of solute segregation at GBs, or the GB\par
     resulting structures had around 40 grains, and 3D periodic boundary           solute content, was 12 atomic % across all grain sizes. It should be noted\par
     conditions. The size of the simulation cells varied from 18 nm3 and 500,000   that because of the large computational cost of hybrid MC\u8211?MD\par
     atoms at 6 nm grain size to around 72 nm3 and 35 million atoms at 24 nm       simulations, only one instance of the microstructure for each grain size\par
     grain size. Figure 8a shows a NC Ni structure of 6 nm average grain size      is alloyed and mechanically tested. An alloyed con\u64257?guration of NC Ni\u8211?P\par
     along with the GB misorientation distribution. The GB misorientation angle    structure of 6 nm grain size is shown in Fig. 8b, where, segregation of P\par
     distribution matches well with the Mackenzie distribution of a cubic          atoms at NC GBs is clearly visible.\par
     sample65, indicating a random texture. All visualizations in this work were\par
     performed using OVITO66.\par
                                                                                   Mechanical testing\par
                                                                                   Following the generation of NC structures, uniaxial tension MD simulations\par
     Generation of NC Ni\u8211?P structures                                              were performed under isothermal-isobaric conditions (NPT ensemble),\par
     Alloyed Ni-P structures were generated from NC Ni structures using hybrid     with a constant imposed strain rate at 300 K temperature and zero normal\par
     MC\u8211?MD simulations. A certain number of P atoms (depending upon the            pressure along boundaries in transverse directions. NC Ni structures were\par
     desired solute content) were \u64257?rst placed at random inside NC bulk/ grains     loaded at strain rates of 108 s\u8722?1 and 1010 s\u8722?1, Ni\u8211?P at 108 s\u8722?1. Global\par
     in-lieu of Ni atoms. Another EAM force \u64257?eld was used to model interatomic     pressure tensor of the system is used to calculate stress during uniaxial\par
     interactions in alloyed Ni\u8211?P67. The potential was \u64257?tted to yield              loading. In order to delineate elastic and plastic components of strain\par
     experimental lattice parameters and cohesive energies of Ni and P. In         during loading, deformed NC structures were relaxed to drive system\u8217?s\par
\par
\par
     npj Computational Materials (2020) 153             Published in partnership with the Shanghai Institute of Ceramics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences\par
                                                                                             A. Gupta et al.\par
                                                                                                                                                                                             11\par
elastic strain to zero. To enable a simulation restart from any point during                  5. Hughes, G. D., Smith, S. D., Pande, C. S., Johnson, H. R. & Armstrong, R. W. Hall-\par
the loading, NC structural con\u64257?gurations (position and velocities of atoms)                      petch strengthening for the microhardness of twelve nanometer grain diameter\par
at increments of 1% strain were stored in restart \u64257?les. These con\u64257?gurations                      electrodeposited nickel. Scr. Metall. 20, 93\u8211?97 (1986).\par
were then dynamically relaxed to a state of zero normal stress by applying                    6. Baldwin, W. M. Yield strength of metals as a function of grain size. Acta Metall. 6,\par
a constant strain in the direction opposite to initial loading. The plastic                      139\u8211?141 (1958).\par
strain was calculated from the atomic strain tensors in these relaxed                         7. Dunstan, D. J. & Bushby, A. J. Grain size dependence of the strength of metals:\par
structures. Only one instance of NC structure at a given grain size was                          The Hall\u8211?Petch effect does not scale as the inverse square root of grain size. Int. J.\par
subjected to these relaxation simulations due to large computational cost                        Plast. 53, 56\u8211?65 (2014).\par
associated.                                                                                   8. Schi\u248?tz, J., Di Tolla, F. D. & Jacobsen, K. W. Softening of nanocrystalline metals at\par
                                                                                                 very small grain sizes. Nature 391, 561\u8211?563 (1998).\par
                                                                                              9. Schi\u248?tz, J. & Jacobsen, K. W. A maximum in the strength of nanocrystalline\par
Quanti\u64257?cation of deformation mechanisms                                                          copper. Science 301, 1357\u8211?1359 (2003).\par
Strain tensors for every atom in the NC structure were calculated using                      10. Chokshi, A. H., Rosen, A., Karch, J. & Gleiter, H. On the validity of the hall-petch\par
the method described by Tucker et al.26,28,40,41. The deformation                                relationship in nanocrystalline materials. Scr. Metall. 23, 1679\u8211?1683 (1989).\par
gradient tensor F was obtained by mapping the undeformed or                                  11. Fougere, G. E., Weertman, J. R., Siegel, R. W. & Kim, S. Grain-size dependent\par
reference con\u64257?guration to a current or deformed con\u64257?guration of NC                               hardening and softening of nanocrystalline Cu and Pd. Scr. Metall. Mater. 26,\par
structure as shown in Fig. 8c. Here, x and X are the vectors between two                         1879\u8211?1883 (1992).\par
material points in the deformed and reference con\u64257?gurations, respec-                         12. Konstantinidis, D. A. & Aifantis, E. C. On the \u8220?Anomalous\u8221? hardness of nanocrys-\par
tively. However, atomic positions instead of material points were used                           talline materials. Nanostruct. Mater. 10, 1111\u8211?1118 (1998).\par
for this mapping in the atomistic structure, as detailed by Zimmerman                        13. Carlton, C. E. & Ferreira, P. J. What is behind the inverse Hall\u8211?Petch effect in\par
et al.69. The deformation gradient tensor was estimated for each atom by                         nanocrystalline materials? Acta Mater. 55, 3749\u8211?3756 (2007).\par
mapping the nearest neighbor vectors of that atom in the reference and                       14. Lu, K. & Sui, M. L. An explanation to the abnormal Hall-Petch relation in nano-\par
deformed con\u64257?gurations, as illustrated Fig. 8c. The strain tensor E was                          crystalline materials. Scr. Metall. Mater. 28, 1465\u8211?1470 (1993).\par
calculated from the deformation gradient tensor as, E = 0.5 (FTF\u8211?I). Here,                   15. Conrad, H. & Narayan, J. On the grain size softening in nanocrystalline materials.\par
I is the identity tensor. Nanoscale deformation mechanisms were                                  Scr. Mater. 42, 1025\u8211?1030 (2000).\par
identi\u64257?ed from the kinematic signatures of deformation around each                           16. Lu, L., Shen, Y., Chen, X., Qian, L. & Lu, K. Ultrahigh strength and high electrical\par
atom, their structural environments (FCC/BCC/HCP/Other) and slip                                 conductivity in copper. Science 304, 422\u8211?426 (2004).\par
vectors26,39,70. Particular identi\u64257?cation of mechanisms (e.g., dislocation                   17. Yamakov, V., Wolf, D., Phillpot, S. R., Mukherjee, A. K. & Gleiter, H. Deformation\par
slip, twinning, GB deformation and elastic lattice strain) from computed                         mechanism crossover and mechanical behaviour in nanocrystalline materials.\par
atomic tensors was crucial. Based up on which, the percentage of total                           Philos. Mag. Lett. 83, 385\u8211?393 (2003).\par
loading strain pk, accommodated within a deformation mechanism                               18. Lu, L., Chen, X., Huang, X. & Lu, K. Revealing the maximum strength in nanot-\par
k, at any point during the uniaxial loading was calculated according to                          winned copper. Science 323, 607\u8211?610 (2009).\par
Eq. 1.                                                                                       19. Yamakov, V., Wolf, D., Phillpot, S. R., Mukherjee, A. K. & Gleiter, H. Deformation-\par
       Pnk i                                                                                     mechanism map for nanocrystalline metals by molecular-dynamics simulation.\par
              E33\par
 pk \u188? Pi\u188?1N    i\par
                                                                        (1)                      Nat. Mater. 3, 43\u8211?47 (2004).\par
          i\u188?1 E33                                                                            20. Hu, J., Shi, Y. N., Sauvage, X., Sha, G. & Lu, K. Grain boundary stability governs\par
          i\par
   Here, E33 is the normal component along the loading direction (z in this                      hardening and softening in extremely \u64257?ne nanograined metals. Science 355,\par
case) of the strain tensor of an atom i computed at that point during the                        1292\u8211?1296 (2017).\par
uniaxial loading. Summations in the numerator and the denominator span                       21. Chandross, M. & Argibay, N. Ultimate strength of metals. Phys. Rev. Lett. 124,\par
over all atoms nk, participating in the mechanism k, and the total number                        125501 (2020).\par
of atoms in the NC structure N, respectively. It should be noted that this                   22. Spearot, D. E., Tucker, G. J., Gupta, A. & Thompson, G. B. Mechanical properties of\par
method includes contribution from all atoms that were deformed by either                         stabilized nanocrystalline FCC metals. J. Appl. Phys. 126, 110901 (2019).\par
dislocations, twins or GBs in previous con\u64257?gurations as well, not just those                 23. Hahn, E. N. & Meyers, M. A. Grain-size dependent mechanical behavior of\par
that are part of these defect structures in current con\u64257?guration, and thus                       nanocrystalline metals. Mater. Sci. Eng. A 646, 101\u8211?134 (2015).\par
more accurately capturing the complex deformation that occurs within                         24. Zhang, L., Lu, C. & Tieu, K. A review on atomistic simulation of grain boundary\par
microstructures by competing mechanisms.                                                         behaviors in face-centered cubic metals. Comput. Mater. Sci. 118, 180\u8211?191 (2016).\par
                                                                                             25. Stukowski, A., Albe, K. & Farkas, D. Nanotwinned fcc metals: strengthening versus\par
                                                                                                 softening mechanisms. Phys. Rev. B 82, 224103 (2010).\par
                                                                                             26. Tucker, G. J., Tiwari, S., Zimmerman, J. A. & McDowell, D. L. Investigating the\par
DATA AVAILABILITY\par
                                                                                                 deformation of nanocrystalline copper with microscale kinematic metrics and\par
All data is available within the paper and supplementary information.                            molecular dynamics. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 60, 471\u8211?486 (2012).\par
                                                                                             27. Prakash, A., Weygand, D. & Bitzek, E. In\u64258?uence of grain boundary structure and\par
                                                                                                 topology on the plastic deformation of nanocrystalline aluminum as studied by\par
CODE AVAILABILITY                                                                                atomistic simulations. Int. J. Plast. 97, 107\u8211?125 (2017).\par
LAMMPS is an open-source atomistic simulation code, freely available to download at          28. Tucker, G. J., Zimmerman, J. A. & McDowell, D. L. Continuum metrics for defor-\par
https://lammps.sandia.gov. All post-processing code and meta-data used in the                    mation and microrotation from atomistic simulations: application to grain\par
analysis will be provided upon request.                                                          boundaries. Int. J. Eng. Sci. 49, 1424\u8211?1434 (2011).\par
                                                                                             29. Bitzek, E., Derlet, P. M., Anderson, P. M. & Van Swygenhoven, H. The stress\u8211?strain\par
                                                                                                 response of nanocrystalline metals: a statistical analysis of atomistic simulations.\par
Received: 13 May 2020; Accepted: 24 September 2020;\par
                                                                                                 Acta Mater. 56, 4846\u8211?4857 (2008).\par
                                                                                             30. Trelewicz, J. R. & Schuh, C. A. The Hall-Petch breakdown in nanocrystalline metals:\par
                                                                                                 a crossover to glass-like deformation. Acta Mater. 55, 5948\u8211?5958 (2007).\par
                                                                                             31. Trelewicz, J. R. & Schuh, C. A. Hot nanoindentation of nanocrystalline Ni-W alloys.\par
                                                                                                 Scr. Mater. 61, 1056\u8211?1059 (2009).\par
REFERENCES                                                                                   32. Liu, J., Fan, X., Zheng, W., Singh, D. J. & Shi, Y. Nanocrystalline gold with small size:\par
 1. Hall, E. O. The deformation and ageing of mild steel: III discussion of results. Proc.       inverse Hall\u8211?Petch between mixed regime and super-soft regime. Philos. Mag. 0,\par
    Phys. Soc. Sect. B 64, 747\u8211?753 (1951).                                                       1\u8211?17 (2020).\par
 2. Petch, N. J. The cleavage strength of polycrystals. J. Iron Steel Inst. 174, 25\u8211?28       33. Vo, N. Q., Averback, R. S., Bellon, P., Odunuga, S. & Caro, A. Quantitative\par
    (1953).                                                                                      description of plastic deformation in nanocrystalline Cu: Dislocation glide versus\par
 3. Malow, T. R. & Koch, C. C. Mechanical properties in tension of mechanically                  grain boundary sliding. Phys. Rev. B. 77, 134108 (2008).\par
    attrited nanocrystalline iron by the use of the miniaturized disk bend test. Acta        34. Kim, H. S. & Bush, M. B. The effects of grain size and porosity on the elastic\par
    Mater. 46, 6459\u8211?6473 (1998).                                                                 modulus of nanocrystalline materials. Nanostruct. Mater. 11, 361\u8211?367 (1999).\par
 4. Conrad, H. Grain-size dependence of the \u64258?ow stress of Cu from millimeters to             35. Valat-Villain, P., Durinck, J. & Renault, P. O. Grain size dependence of elastic\par
    nanometers. Metall. Mater. Trans. A 35, 2681\u8211?2695 (2004).                                    moduli in nanocrystalline tungsten. J. Nanomater. 2017, 1\u8211?6 (2017).\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Published in partnership with the Shanghai Institute of Ceramics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences                                npj Computational Materials (2020) 153\par
                                                                            A. Gupta et al.\par
12\par
     36. Rajaram, S. S. et al. Grain-size-dependent grain boundary deformation during            63. Plimpton, S. Fast parallel algorithms for short-range molecular dynamics. J.\par
         yielding in nanocrystalline materials using atomistic simulations. JOM 72,                  Comput. Phys. 117, 1\u8211?19 (1995).\par
         1745\u8211?1754 (2020).                                                                       64. Tucker, G. J. & Foiles, S. M. Molecular dynamics simulations of rate-dependent\par
     37. Maa\u223?, R. & Derlet, P. M. Micro-plasticity and recent insights from intermittent and         grain growth during the surface indentation of nanocrystalline nickel. Mater. Sci.\par
         small-scale plasticity. Acta Mater. 143, 338\u8211?363 (2018).                                    Eng. A 571, 207\u8211?214 (2013).\par
     38. Van Swygenhoven, H. Footprints of plastic deformation in nanocrystalline metals.        65. Mackenzie, J. K. Second paper on statistics associated with the random dis-\par
         Mater. Sci. Eng. A 483\u8211?484, 33\u8211?39 (2008).                                                   orientation of cubes. Biometrika 45, 229\u8211?240 (1958).\par
     39. Tucker, G. J., Foley, D. & Gruber, J. Continuum metrics for atomistic simulation        66. Stukowski, A. Visualization and analysis of atomistic simulation data\par
         analysis. In Springer Series in Materials Science Vol. 245, 297\u8211?315 (Springer Verlag,       with OVITO\u8211?the open visualization tool. Model. Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 18, 015012\par
         2016).                                                                                      (2010).\par
     40. Tucker, G. J. & Foiles, S. M. Quantifying the in\u64258?uence of twin boundaries on the        67. Sheng, H. W., Ma, E. & Kramer, M. J. Relating dynamic properties to atomic\par
         deformation of nanocrystalline copper using atomistic simulations. Int. J. Plast.           structure in metallic glasses. JOM 64, 856\u8211?881 (2012).\par
         65, 191\u8211?205 (2015).                                                                     68. Metropolis, N., Rosenbluth, A. W., Rosenbluth, M. N., Teller, A. H. & Teller, E.\par
     41. Tucker, G. J., Zimmerman, J. A. & McDowell, D. L. Shear deformation kinematics of           Equation of state calculations by fast computing machines. J. Chem. Phys. 21,\par
         bicrystalline grain boundaries in atomistic simulations. Model. Simul. Mater. Sci.          1087\u8211?1092 (1953).\par
         Eng. 18, 015002 (2010).                                                                 69. Zimmerman, J. A., Bammann, D. J. & Gao, H. Deformation gradients for continuum\par
     42. Wolf, D., Yamakov, V., Phillpot, S. R., Mukherjee, A. & Gleiter, H. Deformation of          mechanical analysis of atomistic simulations. Int. J. Solids Struct. 46, 238\u8211?253\par
         nanocrystalline materials by molecular-dynamics simulation: relationship to                 (2009).\par
         experiments? Acta Mater. 53, 1\u8211?40 (2005).                                               70. Zimmerman, J. A., Kelchner, C. L., Klein, P. A., Hamilton, J. C. & Foiles, S. M. Surface\par
     43. Rida, A., Micoulaut, M., Rouhaud, E. & Makke, A. Understanding the strain rate              step effects on nanoindentation. Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 165507 (2001).\par
         sensitivity of nanocrystalline copper using molecular dynamics simulations.\par
         Comput. Mater. Sci. 172, 109294 (2020).\par
     44. Li, H. et al. Mapping the strain-rate and grain-size dependence of deformation          ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS\par
         behaviors in nanocrystalline face-centered-cubic Ni and Ni-based alloys. J. Alloy.      Authors G.J.T, G.B.T., and A.G. are grateful for the support of ARO through grant no.\par
         Compd. 709, 566\u8211?574 (2017).                                                             W911NF-17-1-0528 and greatly acknowledge ARO Program Manager, Dr. Michael\par
     45. Asaro, R. J. & Suresh, S. Mechanistic models for the activation volume and rate         Bakas. G.J.T. and A.G. also acknowledge XSEDE allocation charge no. TG-DMR190011\par
         sensitivity in metals with nanocrystalline grains and nano-scale twins. Acta Mater.     and hpc resource mio at Colorado School of Mines for allowing the reported\par
         53, 3369\u8211?3382 (2005).                                                                   atomistic simulations. D.L.M. is grateful for the support of the NSF CMMI-1761553.\par
     46. Wang, Y. M., Hamza, A. V. & Ma, E. Temperature-dependent strain rate\par
         sensitivity and activation volume of nanocrystalline Ni. Acta Mater. 54, 2715\u8211?2726\par
         (2006).\par
                                                                                                 AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS\par
     47. Brandl, C., Derlet, P. M. & Van Swygenhoven, H. Strain rates in molecular\par
         dynamics simulations of nanocrystalline metals. Philos. Mag. 89, 3465\u8211?3475              Author G.J.T. conceived the project. A.G. performed all simulations and calculations.\par
         (2009).                                                                                 A.G., J.G., and G.J.T. developed the microstructure generation, characterization and\par
     48. Mercier, S., Molinari, A. & Estrin, Y. Grain size dependence of strength of nano-       kinematic metric codes. A.G. and G.J.T. analyzed the calculated results. All authors\par
         crystalline materials as exempli\u64257?ed by copper: An elastic-viscoplastic modelling        were involved in discussing the calculated results. A.G. and G.J.T. drafted the \u64257?gures\par
         approach. J. Mater. Sci. 42, 1455\u8211?1465 (2007).                                          and manuscript with input from all authors. All authors reviewed and approved the\par
     49. Hentschel, T., Isheim, D., Kirchheim, R., M\u252?ller, F. & Kreye, H. Nanocrystalline        manuscript.\par
         Ni\u8211?3.6 at.% P and its transformation sequence studied by atom-probe \u64257?eld-ion\par
         microscopy. Acta Mater. 48, 933\u8211?941 (2000).\par
     50. McMahon, G. & Erb, U. Bulk amorphous and nanocrystalline Ni-P alloys by elec-           COMPETING INTERESTS\par
         troplating. Microstruct. Sci. 17, 447\u8211?457 (1989).                                       The authors declare no competing interests.\par
     51. Gupta, A., Zhou, X., Thompson, G. B. & Tucker, G. J. Role of grain boundary\par
         character and its evolution on interfacial solute segregation behavior in nano-\par
         crystalline Ni-P. Acta Mater. 190, 113\u8211?123 (2020).                                      ADDITIONAL INFORMATION\par
     52. Moti, E., Shariat, M. H. & Bahrololoom, M. E. Electrodeposition of nanocrystalline      Supplementary information is available for this paper at https://doi.org/10.1038/\par
         nickel by using rotating cylindrical electrodes. Mater. Chem. Phys. 111, 469\u8211?474        s41524-020-00425-0.\par
         (2008).\par
     53. Schuh, C. A., Nieh, T. G. & Yamasaki, T. Hall\u8211?Petch breakdown manifested in             Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to G.J.T.\par
         abrasive wear resistance of nanocrystalline nickel. Scr. Mater. 46, 735\u8211?740 (2002).\par
     54. Torrents, A., Yang, H. & Mohamed, F. A. Effect of annealing on hardness and the         Reprints and permission information is available at http://www.nature.com/\par
         modulus of elasticity in bulk nanocrystalline nickel. Metall. Mater. Trans. A 41,       reprints\par
         621\u8211?630 (2010).\par
     55. Erb, U. Electrodeposited nanocrystals: synthesis, properties and industrial appli-      Publisher\u8217?s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims\par
         cations. Nanostruct. Mater. 6, 533\u8211?538 (1995).                                          in published maps and institutional af\u64257?liations.\par
     56. Palumbo, G., Erb, U. & Aust, K. T. Triple line disclination effects on the mechanical\par
         behaviour of materials. Scr. Metall. Mater. 24, 2347\u8211?2350 (1990).\par
     57. Zhou, Y., Erb, U., Aust, K. & Palumbo, G. The effects of triple junctions and grain\par
         boundaries on hardness and Young\u8217?s modulus in nanostructured Ni\u8211?P. Scr. Mater.\par
         48, 825\u8211?830 (2003).                                                                                        Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons\par
     58. Jeong, D., Erb, U., Aust, K. & Palumbo, G. The relationship between hardness and                           Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing,\par
         abrasive wear resistance of electrodeposited nanocrystalline Ni\u8211?P coatings. Scr.        adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give\par
         Mater. 48, 1067\u8211?1072 (2003).                                                            appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative\par
     59. Gouldstone, A. et al. Indentation across size scales and disciplines: recent            Commons license, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party\par
         developments in experimentation and modeling. Acta Mater. 55, 4015\u8211?4039                 material in this article are included in the article\u8217?s Creative Commons license, unless\par
         (2007).                                                                                 indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the\par
     60. Naik, S. N. & Walley, S. M. The Hall\u8211?Petch and inverse Hall\u8211?Petch relations and the     article\u8217?s Creative Commons license and your intended use is not permitted by statutory\par
         hardness of nanocrystalline metals. J. Mater. Sci. 55, 2661\u8211?2681 (2020).                regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly\par
     61. Gruber, J., Lim, H., Abdeljawad, F., Foiles, S. & Tucker, G. J. Development of          from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.\par
         physically based atomistic microstructures: the effect on the mechanical                org/licenses/by/4.0/.\par
         response of polycrystals. Comput. Mater. Sci. 128, 29\u8211?36 (2017).\par
     62. Foiles, S. M. & Hoyt, J. J. Computation of grain boundary stiffness and mobility\par
         from boundary \u64258?uctuations. Acta Mater. 54, 3351\u8211?3357 (2006).                            \u169? The Author(s) 2020\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
     npj Computational Materials (2020) 153                      Published in partnership with the Shanghai Institute of Ceramics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences\par

}