{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
Article\par
\par
Quantifying grain boundary deformation\par
mechanisms in small-grained metals\par
\par
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09800-7                       Romain Gautier1,2,3, Fr\u233?d\u233?ric Mompiou1, Oliver Renk4, Christophe Coupeau2, Nicolas Combe1,\par
                                                                 Gregory Seine1 & Marc Legros1 \u9993?\par
Received: 20 December 2024\par
\par
Accepted: 23 October 2025\par
                                                                 Dislocations are the crystalline defects responsible for the mechanical properties\par
Published online: 10 December 2025\par
                                                                 of conventional metals and alloys. When they become scarce or constrained, such\par
    Check for updates\par
                                                                 as in nanocrystals1, grain-boundary-based mechanisms may compensate and lead\par
                                                                 to permanent deformation2,3. Shear-migration coupling is thought to be the most\par
                                                                 efficient of these processes4,5, but despite intense research activity, no consensus has\par
                                                                 emerged to quantify the possible shear produced by a migrating grain boundary6.\par
                                                                 Here we show experimentally that, in small-grained polycrystals, this shear does not\par
                                                                 depend on the grain boundary misorientation and that its efficiency remains low.\par
                                                                 These findings support a new concept of grain boundaries that may not be considered\par
                                                                 as crystalline defects carrying an intrinsic \u8216?coupling factor\u8217?7 (similarly to the Burgers\par
                                                                 vector of a dislocation) but rather as specific lattices containing peculiar defects,\par
                                                                 known as disconnections, that will, in turn, govern the properties, at least mechanical,\par
                                                                 of grain boundaries. They also confirm that polycrystals can plastically deform\par
                                                                 without dislocations but less effectively, providing a potential path to explain the\par
                                                                 poor ductility of nanocrystalline metals at low and room temperature.\par
\par
\par
Over a wide range of conditions (temperature, pressure, strain rate                              by its relation to grain boundary misorientation and ability to predict\par
and so on), the permanent or plastic deformation of metals and alloys                            the strain of moving grain boundaries in bicrystals23, the disconnection\par
is carried out by dislocations, linear defects whose availability and                            model relies on more physically based grain boundary structures but\par
mobility dictate the mechanical behaviour of crystalline materials.                              cannot quantify a priori the deformation resulting from the motion of\par
Those exist generally in the form of polycrystals, in which each crystal                         a given grain boundary if its defect content is quantitatively unknown.\par
domain, or grain, is delimited by grain boundaries, a known obstacle                             This process intrinsically differs from \u8216?regular\u8217? grain growth that relies\par
to dislocation motion. The Hall\u8211?Petch relation8,9, which describes the                           on diffusion and is fuelled by the gradient of chemical potential across\par
increase of a metal\u8217?s yield strength as the inverse of its grain size, has                       a grain boundary, which can be because of grain boundary curvature24,\par
been rationalized on the basis of dislocation pile-ups against grain                             species concentration25 or defect densities26. Such mechanism can-\par
boundaries in progressively restrained volumes10. As this empirical law                          not explain recent findings, experimentally unattainable previously,\par
reaches its limits for nanometric grain sizes11, for which crystallites are                      in which grain boundary velocity is found to be decorrelated from\par
generally empty of dislocations1, the plasticity threshold saturates or                          curvature for thousands of them in polycrystalline Ni27,28. As of today,\par
decreases11. This transition is usually attributed to plastic deformation                        two unanswered questions about the deformation of small-grained\par
processes driven by grain boundaries themselves12. Several mechanisms                            crystals at low and intermediate temperatures concern the control-\par
can relax an applied stress by generating permanent deformation13:                               ling mechanism: would any stand out and, in the case in which this\par
grain rotations14,15, grain boundary sliding16 and shear-coupled grain                           mechanism would be SCGBM, how to quantify it.\par
boundary migration (SCGBM)17. Although the first two suggest that                                   Because of the scale and complexity of nanocrystalline structures,\par
grains behave as non-deformable volumes, the last involves the move-                             atomistic simulations have been a relevant and extensively used tool\par
ment of grain boundaries and, thus, grain growth and shrinkage18.                                to address these questions6,29\u8211?31 and to assess the above-mentioned\par
SCGBM is a process that is less intuitive to apprehend than grain rota-                          mechanisms. However, these methods usually describe perfect model\par
tion or sliding but has gained considerable attention over the past                              grain boundaries, far from taking into account the full complexity of\par
several years, as it may explain stress-assisted grain growth at room or                         a polycrystalline material. Also, they did not focus on bringing out a\par
intermediate temperature2, whereas such a feature was previously the                             given deformation mechanism, with the notable exception of Sch\u228?fer\par
prerogative of high-temperature processes such as diffusional creep19.                           and Albe, who constructed a specific virtual nanocrystalline network4\par
To explain that a mobile grain boundary carries along a permanent                                to prove the prevalence of SCGBM over grain boundary sliding in pure\par
strain, different theories have been constructed, either based on the                            fcc nanocrystalline metals.\par
glide of intrinsic perfect grain boundary dislocations20 (popularized                               Experimentally, following both individual grain boundaries\par
by Cahn et al.5) or built around inherent grain boundary defects that                            in nanocrystals and the misorientation they carry in a dynamical\par
are disconnections21,22. Although the perfect dislocation model prevails                         way has proved to be a substantial challenge over the past 20 years.\par
\par
CEMES-CNRS, Universit\u233? de Toulouse, Toulouse, France. 2Institut Pprime, Universit\u233? de Poitiers, Chasseneuil-du-Poitou, France. 3IMT Nord Europe, Center for Materials and Processes, Universit\u233?\par
1\par
\par
\par
de Lille, Lille, France. 4Department of Materials Science, Montanuniversit\u228?t Leoben, Leoben, Austria. \u9993?e-mail: marc.legros@cemes.fr\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    Nature | Vol 648 | 11 December 2025 | 327\par
Article\par
                                                                                            and controlled deformation was combined with atomic force micros-\par
                                                                                            copy (AFM) to quantify the strain transported by migrating grain\par
                                                                                            boundaries whose misorientation was measured. We show that SCGBM\par
                                                                                            is the main mechanism at play, that the carried shear strain is not a func-\par
                                                                                            tion of the grain boundary misorientation and that this strain is always\par
                                                                                            low, providing a potential rationale to the known low-temperature and\par
                                                                           111              room-temperature brittleness of nanocrystalline metals32, for which\par
                                                                                            this mechanism may prevail.\par
                                                                                                To isolate grain boundary mechanisms over the easier dislocation\par
                                                                                            activities, we have two options: look at very small grains, precluding\par
                                                        001                  011            the chance to characterize many grain boundaries and identify the\par
Fig. 1 | Superposition of a crystallographic orientation map onto a bright-                 governing mechanism or remove intragranular dislocations and work\par
field TEM micrograph of a precracked ultrafine-grained Al thin foil. Each                   at intermediate temperatures in slightly larger grains. This is the option\par
colour corresponds to a grain; see inverse pole figure along the image normal               we chose here, working on ultrafine-grained (grain size less than 1 \u181?m)\par
direction on the right. Orientations are collected ahead of the crack tip                   Al tested at about 210\u8211?230 \u176?C. Figure 1 shows the initial configuration\par
(coming from the left) using ACOM. Straining axis is vertical. Scale bar, 1 \u956?m.             of a TEM sample ready to be tensile tested: a crack perpendicular to the\par
                                                                                            straining axis has been introduced at 25 \u176?C, after a 220 \u176?C annealing had\par
Using in situ transmission electron microscopy (TEM), Rottman et al.                        removed intragranular dislocations. An automated crystallographic\par
have shown that no specific orientation was favoured among grain                            orientation mapping (ACOM) performed ahead of the crack is superim-\par
boundaries displaced by stress20. However, no quantification of a pos-                      posed on the bright-field TEM image. By concentrating the stress at this\par
sible shear accompanying these migrations could be performed at the                         point, we maximize our chances to observe grain boundary migration\par
same time. Recent high-resolution TEM observations demonstrated                             and coupling of individual grain boundaries with known orientations.\par
how SCGBM and grain rotation are linked14, but the overall importance                           Among the successful in situ TEM experiments (observations of grain\par
of SCGBM in plastic deformation remains elusive. Here we have used                          boundary migration under stress, no dislocation activity involved),\par
ultrafine-grained aluminium in which inner grain dislocations were                          15 occurrences in which moving grain boundaries led to observable\par
removed (see Supplementary Information and Methods). In situ TEM                            shear strains were quantified using digital image correlation (DIC).\par
\par
\par
                 a                                                                   b\par
\par
                                                                         t=0s                                                                      t = 13 s\par
\par
\par
                                                                    GB\par
                                                                                3\par
                                                                                                                                                              3\par
                                                                                                                                                              2\par
                                                                                                                                                              1\par
                                                                                                                                                       0\par
                                                                                                       GB\par
\par
                                                                0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                 c                                                                   d\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                 4.0\par
                                                                                                 3.5\par
                                                                3\par
                                                                                                 3.0\par
                                        m\par
                                                                                                 2.5\par
                                                                                    Shear (nm)\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                0\par
                                                                                                 2.0        1                    \u61538?                            3\par
                                                                                                                            e=\par
                                                                                                                       Slop\par
                                                                                                 1.5\par
                                                                                                 1.0\par
                                                                                                 0.5                             2\par
                                                                                                  0\par
                                                                                                       20       40          60               80               100\par
                                                                                                                      GB migration (nm)\par
\par
Fig. 2 | Measurement of a plastic strain associated with grain boundary                     boundary (from which strain is measured), defining the migrating distance m.\par
migration during an in situ TEM straining experiment at 220 \u176?C. a,b, Video                  From the DIC measurements, the shear strain d associated with the migration\par
stills captured during an in situ TEM straining experiment showing the initial              is measured in the three first positions of this large-angle grain boundary\par
(0 s) and final (13 s) configuration of a grain boundary (GB, red arrow) after it           (misorientation \u952? = 28\u176?), which leads to a coupling factor \u946? of 0.028. Error bars\par
migrated downwards. White squares define regions for DIC measurement                        mostly come from the dispersion associated with the migration distances and\par
of associated in-plane strain (speckles in the large white square serve as a                shear measurements, as those are rarely uniform. Straining axis is vertical.\par
reference; see text, Methods and Supplementary Information for more details).               Scale bars, 250 nm.\par
c, Composite image exposing the initial (3) and final (0) position of the grain\par
\par
\par
328 | Nature | Vol 648 | 11 December 2025\par
                       a                                                                               b\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                       c                                                                        nm\par
                                                                                                       d\par
                                                                                                140\par
\par
                                                                                                120\par
\par
                                                                                                100\par
\par
                                                                                                80\par
\par
                                                                                                60\par
\par
                                                                                                40\par
\par
                                                                                                20\par
\par
\par
                       e                                                                               f\par
                                                                                                           100\par
                                                                                                            95                    s1\par
                                     5       4                                                              90\par
                                                                              5                             85\par
                                                                                                                                                  m2         s2\par
                                                     3                                4                                            m1\par
                             6           1                                                                  80\par
                                                             Before\par
                                                                                                A\u8242?          75\par
                              7\par
                                                     8                    6           m 3\par
                                             2                                    1                         70\par
                                                                                                            65\par
                                                                      A                                          0   500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000\par
                                     5           4                        7                                          \u61538?1 = 0.007             \u61538?2 = 0.080\par
                                                                                            8\par
                                                     3                                2                                                            s\par
                              6          1                                                                                              1\par
                                                             After                                                                            m\par
                                 7                                                                                                                       3\par
                                                         8                                                   A          7                                         A\u8242?\par
                                             2\par
\par
\par
Fig. 3 | Surface of a bulk Al3%Mg ultrafine-grained sample modified by grain                         showing the regions unaffected by migration (black) and those swept by grain\par
boundary migration after being compressed for 35 min at 250 \u176?C and 4 MPa.                            boundaries (grey), as sketched in e. f, Sketch of the shear/migration analysis\par
a, Topographic scanning electron microscopy image of the region of interest.                         using the height map and the migration map. In a\u8211?d, the straining axis is\par
b, Superimposition of the EBSD grain orientation map on the scanning electron                        horizontal. Scale bars, 5 \u956?m (b); 2 \u956?m (c,d).\par
microscopy image. c, AFM height map of the same region. d, Migration map\par
\par
\par
\par
SCGBM is commonly assessed using the \u946? factor5, which is simply the                                  same migrating grain boundary, that is, a grain boundary that keeps\par
ratio between the amount of shear displacement and the migration                                     its misorientation during motion, as in all of the cases reported here\par
distance, that is, the shear strain. As shown in Fig. 2, the in-plane strain                         (see Supplementary Information for more examples). This is not the\par
is measured by monitoring surface markers (tracked within small white                                case when, for instance, a grain disappears, which is the limit of our\par
squares) before and after the migration with reference to immobile                                   tracking method. All of the coupling factors measured using in situ\par
points (large white rectangle). In this specific case, the migration                                 TEM are further reported in Fig. 4 (red dots), along with those measured\par
distance m is 90 nm and the in-plane strain is roughly parallel to the                               using AFM (blue dots).\par
grain boundary habit plane, as expected, with an average amplitude                                      Because SCGBM may generate plastic strain in the three dimensions\par
of 2.5 nm. This leads to a \u946? of 2.8% for this high-angle grain boundary                              of space and because in situ TEM straining of thin foils only reveals its\par
(misorientation 28\u176?). As well as measuring \u946? factors, these experiments                              in-plane component, we also monitored the out-of-surface behav-\par
showed that grain rotation may occur (in this case, an average \u946? factor                              iour of the same material compressed in a bulk form. Figure 3a shows\par
is meaningless, as the direction of the strain varies around a central                               the consequence of SCGBM on the initially mirror-polished surface\par
point), but this event is much less common than SCGBM (about 5% of                                   of a 6 \u215? 3 \u215? 3-mm3 Al3%Mg block compressed at low stress (4 MPa),\par
the encountered cases of grain boundary migration; see Supplemen-                                    T = 250 \u176?C for 35 min (see Methods and Supplementary Information).\par
tary Information). Another interesting fact is that \u946? often varies during                            Trial and error led us to define these optimal conditions to trigger\par
the migration of a single grain boundary. Grain boundary migration                                   enough grain boundary migration to quantify it without wiping out\par
is in fact rarely continuous and may show pauses before resuming its                                 the initial grain structure. By doing so, we are therefore able to track\par
movement (Supplementary Information videos). Even when the habit                                     individual grain boundaries whose misorientation is monitored before\par
plane does not change, as in Fig. 2, \u946? may exhibit substantial variations,                           and after the experiment through electron backscatter diffraction\par
from almost zero to several percent. We are talking here about the                                   (EBSD) in a scanning electron microscope. The orientation map before\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                        Nature | Vol 648 | 11 December 2025 | 329\par
Article\par
 a                                                                    TEM              b\par
                    1.0\par
                                                                      AFM                                  0.14                                                         C&M <100>\par
                    0.9                                               C&M <100>                                                                                         TEM\par
                    0.8                                               C&M <110>                            0.12                                                         AFM\par
                    0.7\par
Coupling factor \u61538?\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                           0.10\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                       Coupling factor \u61538?\par
                    0.6\par
                                                                                                           0.08\par
                    0.5\par
                    0.4                                                                                    0.06\par
                    0.3\par
                                                                                                           0.04\par
                    0.2\par
                                                                                                           0.02\par
                    0.1\par
                     0                                                                                       0\par
                          0   10   20   30      40      50      60   70   80      90                              0   10     20       30          40         50        60         70\par
                                             Misorientation (\u176?)                                                                      Misorientation (\u176?)\par
\par
Fig. 4 | Coupling factor \u946? for migrating grain boundaries measured by in situ                    circles) and AFM (open blue circles)) and the overall very low values of \u946? for all\par
TEM and AFM. a, Comparison of the acquired data with the perfect dislocation                     migrating grain boundaries. Also note that experimental values are obtained\par
model (Cahn and Mishin: C&M <100> and <110> modes, small solid circles).                         on real grain boundaries (not low coincident or symmetrical and pure tilt or\par
b, Zoom-in on the orange dashed rectangle in a. Note the absence of correlation                  <100> or <110> types) and are projected ones (in plane for in situ TEM, normal\par
between \u946? and the misorientation (measured with both in situ TEM (solid red                      to the surface for AFM).\par
\par
\par
creep is acquired on the mirror-polished surface and that after creep                            correction), the obtained \u946? remains very low. On average, it is found\par
can be seen superimposed over Fig. 3a in Fig. 3b. From the orientation                           to be about 0.03 in our direct TEM measurements and about 0.08 if\par
maps before and after creep, we can obtain a map of the migrations of                            we take only the tilt part of the grain boundary projected in the strain\par
all of the grain boundaries (Fig. 3d) in which the regions that underwent                        direction.\par
migrations are in grey, whereas those that did not are in black. Figure 3e                          Overall, the present experiments provide the first comprehensive\par
sketches the underlying process of migration: black regions are mostly                           measurement method and quantification of grain-boundary-based\par
in the centres of expanding and shrinking grains. From such a map, we                            plasticity mechanisms in a small-grained metal at limited tempera-\par
can deduce migration distances. As observed in TEM, the habit plane                              ture, with a focus on the SCGBM mechanism. As predicted by some\par
of the migrating boundary may change during its motion (owing to                                 atomistic simulations4, this mechanism is indeed the most prevalent\par
interaction with triple junctions, for instance) and we have to define                           one, in the absence of intragranular dislocation-mediated plasticity.\par
an average migration distance m (see Supplementary Information) for                              Other grain-boundary-involved mechanisms such as sliding or rota-\par
each grain boundary. To obtain the coupling factor associated with                               tion were seldom observed. Grain boundary sliding has been widely\par
these migrations, the shear associated with each grain boundary move-                            observed in superplastic deformation34,35 but should remain rare at\par
ment also has to be measured. Because the accompanied shear s is                                 the temperatures investigated here. Those processes appear more\par
produced mainly across the surface (Fig. 3f), we measured it by AFM                              like accommodating gears among a vaster majority of shear-migration\par
and related it to the migration map of Fig. 3d (see Fig. 3f). The coupling                       coupling, characterized by its coupling factor \u946?. Here \u946? was statistically\par
factor \u946? for each moving grain boundary is then obtained by dividing                             quantified using TEM and AFM. We found that \u946? is not linked to the\par
the shear displacement s by the associated migrating distance m. As                              misorientation of migrating grain boundaries and that the efficiency\par
an example, a characteristic AFM profile across three grains and their                           of SCGBM is low even if this process is predominant.\par
associated migrations are presented at the top of Fig. 3f.                                          To explain the general low coupling factor and the fact that one grain\par
   Coupling factors obtained from AFM measurements are reported                                  boundary exhibits different coupling efficiencies during its migra-\par
by open symbols in Fig. 4, along with those from in situ TEM, shown                              tion, we may consider that a low average \u946? is produced by alternating\par
by solid red circles.                                                                            positive and negative large coupling factors, such as predicted by the\par
   The AFM method leads clearly to much larger statistics of \u946? when                              Cahn et al. model36 or by a mix of conservative and non-conservative\par
compared with in situ TEM measurements for which we have to rely                                 mechanisms, such as local diffusion. Note that sliding (infinite \u946?) was\par
on single grain boundary migrations, video-captured in good imaging                              sometimes observed during SCGBM events with low \u946?. In a completely\par
conditions and a limited field of view. Both methods converge however                            different perspective, we may consider that the coupling factor is not\par
towards the same key results: the first is that the coupling factor does                         related to the grain boundary misorientation but to its defect content\par
not depend on grain boundary orientation. We even saw during the TEM                             that is comprehensively described by the concept of disconnections.\par
experiments that one grain boundary could produce different strains                              Disconnections are defects that are specific to grain boundaries as\par
and thus have a varying coupling factor, in line with recent simulations                         they have both a shear and a step component21,22,37, which can be\par
indicating that \u946? is not an intrinsic property of grain boundaries7. This                        defined in the grain boundary dichromatic pattern. For coincident\par
outcome is very different from the theory that considers each grain                              grain boundaries, the displacement symmetry conserving lattice\par
boundary as an array of perfect dislocations and therefore the coupling                          can serve to define Burgers vectors and steps38. Disconnection Burg-\par
factor as a direct function of grain boundary misorientation5. The norm                          ers vectors in the displacement symmetry conserving lattice have\par
of \u946? predicted by this theory is represented as blue and green solid discs                       norms usually much smaller than the perfect dislocations responsi-\par
in Fig. 4a,b. Note that, because of the cubic symmetries of the Al crystal,                      ble for intra-granular plasticity39, making them complex to observe\par
no misorientation larger than 62.8\u176? was found in our measurements, in                            in conventional TEM40. When disconnections travel along the grain\par
line with the Mackenzie distribution33. The second conclusion directly                           boundary to which they belong (and from which they cannot escape\par
inferable from the graph of Fig. 4 is that the coupling factor is always                         because of the incompatibility of their shear component with those\par
low, no matter the migrating grain boundary and its misorientation.                              of the adjacent grains), their step character h leads to the migration of\par
We can argue that the perfect dislocation model only considers tilt                              the grain boundary, whereas the amplitude of their Burgers vector b\par
boundaries, but even if we only consider the tilt component of the                               determines the associated shear41. The coupling factor is simply given\par
migrating grain boundaries (see Supplementary Information for this                               by \u946? = b/h and, indeed, this coupling factor depends on the activated\par
\par
\par
330 | Nature | Vol 648 | 11 December 2025\par
disconnection or disconnection family42. In contrast to intragranular         acknowledgements, peer review information; details of author contri-\par
plasticity for which there are only a few activated dislocations, there       butions and competing interests; and statements of data and code avail-\par
are many disconnections (h, b couples) for a given grain boundary.            ability are available at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09800-7.\par
Consequently, it is not surprising that, depending on which of these\par
disconnections or disconnection families are activated, the coupling          1.    Legros, M., Elliott, B. R., Rittner, M. N., Weertman, J. R. & Hemker, K. J. Microsample tensile\par
factor of a given grain boundary changes following its migration. Much              testing of nanocrystalline metals. Philos. Mag. A 80, 1017\u8211?1026 (2000).\par
smaller Burgers vectors being allowed in grain boundary lattices, the         2.    Rupert, T. J., Gianola, D. S., Gan, Y. & Hemker, K. J. Experimental observations of\par
                                                                                    stress-driven grain boundary migration. Science 326, 1686\u8211?1690 (2009).\par
resulting coupling factor is also directly smaller than those predicted       3.    Gianola, D. S. et al. Stress-assisted discontinuous grain growth and its effect on the\par
using perfect dislocations37.                                                       deformation behavior of nanocrystalline aluminum thin films. Acta Mater. 54, 2253\u8211?2263\par
   The present experiments may also provide a plausible explanation for             (2006).\par
                                                                              4.    Sch\u228?fer, J. & Albe, K. Competing deformation mechanisms in nanocrystalline metals\par
the inherent brittleness of small-grained metals: in the absence of intra-          and alloys: coupled motion versus grain boundary sliding. Acta Mater. 60, 6076\u8211?6085\par
granular dislocations, which is the easiest way to transport permanent              (2012).\par
deformation, alternative mechanisms, among which SCGBM prevails,              5.    Cahn, J. W., Mishin, Y. & Suzuki, A. Coupling grain boundary motion to shear deformation.\par
                                                                                    Acta Mater. 54, 4953\u8211?4975 (2006).\par
are activated. Our hypothesis is that they are not efficient enough and       6.    Han, J., Thomas, S. L. & Srolovitz, D. J. Grain-boundary kinetics: a unified approach.\par
unless some sufficient coupling leads to grain growth, the very limited             Prog. Mater. Sci. 98, 386\u8211?476 (2018).\par
plasticity provided by SCGBM in small-grained metals1,3 leads to their        7.    Chen, K., Han, J., Thomas, S. L. & Srolovitz, D. J. Grain boundary shear coupling is not a\par
                                                                                    grain boundary property. Acta Mater. 167, 241\u8211?247 (2019).\par
early failure. Our experiments are performed at 220 \u176?C, which is close        8.    Hall, E. O. The deformation and ageing of mild steel: II characteristics of the L\u252?ders\par
to 0.5Tm for Al and therefore implies that diffusion certainly plays a              deformation. Proc. Phys. Soc. Sect. B 64, 742\u8211?747 (1951).\par
role. However, this temperature is rather low considering past stud-          9.    Petch, N. J. The cleavage strength of polycrystals. J. Iron Steel Inst. 174, 25\u8211?28 (1953).\par
                                                                              10.   Dunstan, D. J. & Bushby, A. J. The scaling exponent in the size effect of small scale plastic\par
ies on superplasticity in Al and Al alloys34, in which grain boundary               deformation. Int. J. Plast. 40, 152\u8211?162 (2013).\par
sliding was considered as a key mechanism (but limited when it came           11.   Schuh, C. A., Nieh, T. G. & Yamasaki, T. Hall\u8211?Petch breakdown manifested in abrasive wear\par
to pure Al grain boundaries43). The accuracy of measurements was                    resistance of nanocrystalline nickel. Scr. Mater. 46, 735\u8211?740 (2002).\par
                                                                              12.   Shan, Z. et al. Grain boundary-mediated plasticity in nanocrystalline nickel. Science 305,\par
also not what we are reaching now, in terms of both grain orientation               654\u8211?657 (2004).\par
and displacement measurements44. Discriminating what qualitatively            13.   Baral, P. et al. Grain boundary-mediated plasticity in aluminum films unraveled by a\par
                                                                                    statistical approach combining nano-DIC and ACOM-TEM. Acta Mater. 276, 120081\par
seemed like grain boundary sliding (grains emerging at surfaces) from\par
                                                                                    (2024).\par
what is actually SCGBM (see Supplementary Fig. 13) has become techni-         14.   Tian, Y. et al. Grain rotation mechanisms in nanocrystalline materials: multiscale\par
cally easier. For shear coupling, we only considered shears along the               observations in Pt thin films. Science 386, 49\u8211?54 (2024).\par
                                                                              15.   Chen, Y., Deng, H., Zhu, Q., Zhou, H. & Wang, J. Direct observation of disconnection-\par
grain boundaries and, in this direction, elevated temperature should\par
                                                                                    mediated grain rotation. Scr. Mater. 252, 116279 (2024).\par
favour sliding5 and thus increase \u946?. Our measured values could thus           16.   Van Swygenhoven, H. & Derlet, P. M. Grain-boundary sliding in nanocrystalline fcc metals.\par
be considered as upper ones, although knowing their amplitude in                    Phys. Rev. B 64, 224105 (2001).\par
                                                                              17.   Yu, Q., Legros, M. & Minor, A. M. In situ TEM nanomechanics. MRS Bull. 40, 62\u8211?70 (2015).\par
3D may have increased some of them by a projection factor. Also, the\par
                                                                              18.   Legros, M., Gianola, D. S. & Hemker, K. J. In situ TEM observations of fast grain-boundary\par
migration speeds that we observed are often orders of magnitude too                 motion in stressed nanocrystalline aluminum films. Acta Mater. 56, 3380\u8211?3393 (2008).\par
high to be explained by diffusion only. This temperature is also much         19.   Zhang, B. B., Tang, Y. G., Mei, Q. S., Li, X. Y. & Lu, K. Inhibiting creep in nanograined alloys\par
                                                                                    with stable grain boundary networks. Science 378, 659\u8211?663 (2022).\par
lower than in the bicrystal experiments23 (280\u8211?400 \u176?C) but is probably\par
                                                                              20.   Molodov, K. D. & Molodov, D. A. Grain boundary mediated plasticity: on the evaluation of\par
needed to help strain accommodation very locally, such as in triple                 grain boundary migration - shear coupling. Acta Mater. 153, 336\u8211?353 (2018).\par
junctions that are often mobile in our experiments. And finally, when         21.   Hirth, J. P. & Pond, R. C. Steps, dislocations and disconnections as interface defects\par
                                                                                    relating to structure and phase transformations. Acta Mater. 44, 4749\u8211?4763 (1996).\par
the observation conditions are favourable, we do observe disconnec-\par
                                                                              22.   Khater, H. A., Serra, A., Pond, R. C. & Hirth, J. P. The disconnection mechanism of coupled\par
tions motion (see Supplementary Fig. 12 and associated video). Triple               migration and shear at grain boundaries. Acta Mater. 60, 2007\u8211?2020 (2012).\par
junctions seem to act as sources and sinks for these disconnections,          23.   Gorkaya, T., Molodov, D. A. & Gottstein, G. Stress-driven migration of symmetrical\u9001?100\u9002?tilt\par
                                                                                    grain boundaries in Al bicrystals. Acta Mater. 57, 5396\u8211?5405 (2009).\par
as previously reported37,45. The motion of disconnections, especially         24.   Gottstein, G. & Shvindlerman, L. S. Grain Boundary Migration in Metals: Thermodynamics,\par
along the grain boundary plane normal, would also benefit from local                Kinetics, Applications 2nd edn (CRC Press, 2009).\par
diffusion. An extended discussion has been added in Supplementary             25.   Balluffi, R. W. & Cahn, J. W. Mechanism for diffusion induced grain boundary migration.\par
                                                                                    Acta Metall. 29, 493\u8211?500 (1981).\par
Information Section 4.                                                        26.   Humphreys, F. J. & Hatherly, M. Recrystallization and Related Annealing Phenomena\par
   Overall, these findings may force us to reconsider the inherent                  (Elsevier, 2012).\par
nature of grain boundaries. What we demonstrate here could have               27.   Bhattacharya, A. et al. Grain boundary velocity and curvature are not correlated in Ni\par
                                                                                    polycrystals. Science 374, 189\u8211?193 (2021).\par
been directly inferred from dislocation-based plasticity in metals and        28.   Rohrer, G. S. et al. Grain boundary migration in polycrystals. Annu. Rev. Mater. Res. 53,\par
alloys: except for their elastic properties, all other mechanical proper-           347\u8211?369 (2023).\par
ties (strength, ductility and so on) directly result from the properties of   29.   Shiga, M. & Shinoda, W. Stress-assisted grain boundary sliding and migration at finite\par
                                                                                    temperature: a molecular dynamics study. Phys. Rev. B 70, 054102 (2004).\par
their defects and not from their lattice structure (the perfect crystal).     30.   Van Swygenhoven, H. & Weertman, J. R. Deformation in nanocrystalline metals. Mater. Today\par
As recently demonstrated for the mobility of grain boundaries7,27,46                9, 24\u8211?31 (2006).\par
essentially at relatively low temperatures at which diffusion is limited,     31.   Olmsted, D. L., Holm, E. A. & Foiles, S. M. Survey of computed grain boundary properties\par
                                                                                    in face-centered cubic metals\u8212?II: Grain boundary mobility. Acta Mater. 57, 3704\u8211?3713\par
the mechanical properties of grain boundaries should result from their              (2009).\par
defects (the disconnections) and not from their macroscopic char-             32.   Meyers, M. A., Mishra, A. & Benson, D. J. Mechanical properties of nanocrystalline materials.\par
acter (habit plane, misorientation) or their structure (dichromatic                 Prog. Mater. Sci. 51, 427\u8211?556 (2006).\par
                                                                              33.   Mackenzie, J. K. Second paper on statistics associated with random disorientation of cubes.\par
pattern), although existing defects depend on this lattice structure.               Biometrika 45, 229\u8211?240 (1958).\par
This requires a change of perspective for real grain boundaries: until        34.   Rai, G. & Grant, N. J. Observations of grain boundary sliding during superplastic deformation.\par
now, they have often been considered as the defects of a polycrystal                Metall. Trans. A 14, 1451\u8211?1458 (1983).\par
                                                                              35.   Langdon, T. G. The physics of superplastic deformation. Mater. Sci. Eng. A 137, 1\u8211?11 (1991).\par
microstructure. What we infer is that they are not an elementary defect       36.   Thomas, S. L., Chen, K., Han, J., Purohit, P. K. & Srolovitz, D. J. Reconciling grain growth\par
but, rather, the support of more elementary defects that govern their               and shear-coupled grain boundary migration. Nat. Commun. 8, 1764 (2017).\par
dynamical properties.                                                         37.   Rajabzadeh, A. et al. The role of disconnections in deformation-coupled grain boundary\par
                                                                                    migration. Acta Mater. 77, 223\u8211?235 (2014).\par
                                                                              38.   Rae, C. M. F. & Smith, D. A. On the mechanisms of grain boundary migration. Philos. Mag. A\par
                                                                                    41, 477\u8211?492 (1980).\par
Online content                                                                39.   Balluffi, R. W., Brokman, A. & King, A. H. CSL/DSC Lattice model for general crystalcrystal\par
                                                                                    boundaries and their line defects. Acta Metall. 30, 1453\u8211?1470 (1982).\par
Any methods, additional references, Nature Portfolio reporting sum-           40.   Gautier, R. et al. Shear-coupled migration of grain boundaries: the key missing link in the\par
maries, source data, extended data, supplementary information,                      mechanical behavior of small-grained metals? C. R. Phys. 22, 19\u8211?34 (2021).\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                    Nature | Vol 648 | 11 December 2025 | 331\par
Article\par
41.   Rajabzadeh, A., Mompiou, F., Legros, M. & Combe, N. Elementary mechanisms of shear-               46. Zhang, J. et al. Grain boundary mobilities in polycrystals. Acta Mater. 191, 211\u8211?220 (2020).\par
      coupled grain boundary migration. Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 265507 (2013).\par
42.   Zhu, Q. et al. In situ atomistic observation of disconnection-mediated grain boundary             Publisher\u8217?s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in\par
      migration. Nat. Commun. 10, 156 (2019).                                                           published maps and institutional affiliations.\par
43.   Shariat, P., Vastava, R. B. & Langdon, T. G. An evaluation of the roles of intercrystalline and\par
      interphase boundary sliding in two-phase superplastic alloys. Acta Metall. 30, 285\u8211?296            Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this\par
      (1982).                                                                                           article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author\par
44.   Sotoudeh, K. & Bate, P. S. Diffusion creep and superplasticity in aluminium alloys. Acta Mater.   self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the\par
      58, 1909\u8211?1920 (2010).                                                                             terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.\par
45.   Mompiou, F. & Legros, M. Quantitative grain growth and rotation probed by in-situ TEM\par
      straining and orientation mapping in small grained Al thin films. Scr. Mater. 99, 5\u8211?8 (2015).     \u169? The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited 2025\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
332 | Nature | Vol 648 | 11 December 2025\par
Methods\par
                                                                             Compression and AFM\par
More details can be found in the Supplementary Information.                  Approximately 100 \u215? 100-\u181?m zones perpendicular to the compression\par
                                                                             axis were marked (FIB fiducial crosses at the corners) and crystallo-\par
Material                                                                     graphically indexed using EBSD (Oxford Instruments) in a Helios 600i\par
Ultrafine-grained aluminium was produced by high-pressure torsion            dual beam FIB-SEM microscope from Thermo Fisher (previously FEI).\par
(HPT) in Leoben, Austria. Plates of commercially pure Al and Al contain-     Compression tests in stress control were performed using a custom\par
ing 1% and 3% mass Mg were deformed at 300 K to 3,000%, to ensure a          mini-vice placed in a neutral-atmosphere oven. The temperature was\par
saturation of the microstructure/nanostructure47. HPT leads to grain         set to 250 \u176?C and the constant stress and duration of the creep test was\par
sizes in the 100 nm range for Al1%Mg and Al3%Mg and in the 1 \u181?m range        determined using trial and error until stress-assisted grain growth was\par
for pure Al. In this study, results were obtained from the Al3%Mg alloy      sufficient to trigger SCGBM, without erasing completely the initial\par
that was able to maintain a smaller grain size during in situ TEM anneal-    microstructure or roughening the surface for subsequent EBSD map-\par
ing. In all three nuances of Al, Mg was in solid solution and the absence    ping, performed after compression. Precise comparison of EBSD and\par
of segregation before deformation at the grain boundaries was checked        AFM maps performed after compression was made possible using a\par
using atom probe tomography at the Max-Planck-Institut f\u252?r Nach-             custom machine learning routine able to correct distortions related\par
haltige Materialien (formerly Max-Planck-Institut f\u252?r Eisenforschung)        to both imaging techniques. Individual grain boundary migrations can\par
in Dusseldorf, Germany.                                                      therefore be related to perpendicular shear and account for a coupling\par
                                                                             factor for each grain boundary (Fig. 3).\par
Sample preparation\par
3.0 \u215? 1.0 \u215? 0.5-mm3 rectangular straining TEM samples were cut out\par
from the HPT discs using electrical discharge machining and mechani-         Data availability\par
cally polished to 30\u8211?50 \u181?m thickness, before being perforated in their       The ACOM-TEM, EBSD and AFM data that support the findings of this\par
centre using electrochemical polishing. They were then glued on Cu           study, along with the analysis tools, are available from Zenodo at https://\par
tensile grids. 6 \u215? 3 \u215? 3-mm3 cubic compression samples were also cut out     doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.17190340 (refs. 48,49).\par
from the initial HPT discs using electrical discharge machining, mechan-\par
ically polished using SiC and diamond papers and mirror-finished using       47. Bachmaier, A., Hafok, M. & Pippan, R. Rate independent and rate dependent structural\par
                                                                                 evolution during severe plastic deformation. Mater. Trans. 51, 8\u8211?13 (2009).\par
colloidal silica.\par
                                                                             48. Gautier, R. et al. Shear coupled grain boundary migration: image and maps processing\par
                                                                                 scripts. Zenodo https://zenodo.org/records/17130567 (2025).\par
TEM                                                                          49. Gautier, R. et al. Shear coupled grain boundary migration in Al UFG: data from EBSD, AFM\par
                                                                                 and ACOM TEM. Zenodo https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.17190340 (2025).\par
Precrack opening (Fig. 1) was performed using a Gatan room-\par
temperature straining holder operated in a Philips CM20 FEG transmis-\par
sion electron microscope. Medium-temperature annealing (220 \u176?C)              Acknowledgements R.G., F.M., N.C., M.L. and C.C. acknowledge the support of Agence\par
                                                                             Nationale de la Recherche, France, through the grant ANR-17-CE08-0007 \u8216?Rodin\u8217?. We are\par
in the zone ahead of the cracks was performed on a custom high-              grateful to B. Gault and X. Chen, who performed the atom probe tomography analysis of\par
temperature straining holder on a JEOL-2010 HC (High Contrast)               grain boundaries at Max Planck Institute for Sustainable Materials, D\u252?sseldorf, D. Lamirault\par
transmission electron microscope. This operation aimed to suppress           (CEMES-CNRS) for some TEM sample preparation and S. Jouli\u233? (CEMES-CNRS), who\par
                                                                             performed the extra EDX-STEM experiments. We would also like to thank the reviewers for\par
intragranular dislocations (monitored with a CCD camera during               their constructive and judicious comments and suggestions.\par
in situ annealing) and was accompanied by a moderate grain growth\par
(100\u8211?700 nm grain size). The same conditions were then applied to the        Author contributions R.G. carried out most of the experimental work and analysis. M.L.\par
                                                                             designed the study, wrote the first version of the manuscript and performed TEM analysis with\par
6 \u215? 3 \u215? 3-mm3 compression cubes. Once the microstructure was free of         F.M. and N.C. F.M. and R.G. created the algorithms to perform DIC and map matching across\par
dislocations and stabilized in grain size, crystallographic orientation      the various techniques. C.C., G.S. and R.G. performed the AFM work and analysis. O.R. created\par
maps of zones ahead of the cracks were then acquired with a Nanomegas        the nanocrystalline Al alloys. All co-authors participated in the writing, replies to the reviewers\par
                                                                             and successive revisions.\par
ACOM-ASTAR module (operated on the CM20 FEG transmission electron\par
microscope). Medium-temperature straining was then performed on the          Competing interests The authors declare no competing interests.\par
high-temperature straining holder of the JEOL-2010 HC transmission\par
electron microscope in bright-field mode at 210\u8211?220 \u176?C to capture stress-    Additional information\par
                                                                             Supplementary information The online version contains supplementary material available at\par
induced SCGBM (Fig. 2). DIC served to measure individual coupling fac-       https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09800-7.\par
tors in the events that were captured on video (Megaview 3 CCD camera        Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to Marc Legros.\par
from EMSIS). DIC is made possible by the contamination occurring on          Peer review information Nature thanks Andriy Ostapovets and the other, anonymous,\par
                                                                             reviewer(s) for their contribution to the peer review of this work. Peer reviewer reports are\par
the surfaces of the foil during the in situ annealing (speckles visible in   available.\par
Fig. 2). Transmission electron microscopes were operated at 200 kV.          Reprints and permissions information is available at http://www.nature.com/reprints.\par

}