{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
                                                                                                                                    Machine learning determination of atomic dynamics\par
                                                                                                                                    at grain boundaries\par
                                                                                                                                    Tristan A. Sharpa,1 , Spencer L. Thomasb , Ekin D. Cubukc,2 , Samuel S. Schoenholzd , David J. Srolovitzb,e,f ,\par
                                                                                                                                    and Andrea J. Liua\par
                                                                                                                                    a\par
                                                                                                                                      Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104; b Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University\par
                                                                                                                                    of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104; c Department of Materials Science, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305; d Google Brain, Google Incorporated,\par
                                                                                                                                    Mountain View, CA 94043; e Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104; and\par
                                                                                                                                    f\par
                                                                                                                                      Department of Materials Science and Engineering, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    Edited by Pablo G. Debenedetti, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, and approved September 11, 2018 (received for review April 26, 2018)\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    In polycrystalline materials, grain boundaries are sites of en-                   Because defect microstructures are commonly spatially ex-\par
                                                                                                                                    hanced atomic motion, but the complexity of the atomic struc-                  tended, it is not clear that atomic rearrangements can be char-\par
                                                                                                                                    tures within a grain boundary network makes it difficult to link               acterized in terms of only local structural information at the\par
                                                                                                                                    the structure and atomic dynamics. Here, we use a machine learn-               atomic scale. Here, we show that structural information within\par
                                                                                                                                    ing technique to establish a connection between local structure                a few atomic diameters is indeed sufficient to predict these\par
Downloaded from https://www.pnas.org by HEBREW UNIVERSITY HARMAN SCIENCES LIBRARY on March 18, 2026 from IP address 132.64.99.71.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    and dynamics of these materials. Following previous work on                    atomic-scale rearrangements and characterize particles in terms\par
                                                                                                                                    bulk glassy materials, we define a purely structural quantity (soft-           of a single continuous scalar variable called \u8220?softness,\u8221? which\par
                                                                                                                                    ness) that captures the propensity of an atom to rearrange. This               captures the relevant properties of the local atomic environ-\par
                                                                                                                                    approach correctly identifies crystalline regions, stacking faults,            ment. Remarkably, we find that particles of a given softness are\par
                                                                                                                                    and twin boundaries as having low likelihood of atomic rear-                   characterized by a well-defined common energy barrier to rear-\par
                                                                                                                                    rangements while finding a large variability within high-energy                rangements in polycrystals, just as was previously discovered for\par
                                                                                                                                    grain boundaries. As has been found in glasses, the probability                glassy liquids (9). Thus, our results translate into a spatial map of\par
                                                                                                                                    that atoms of a given softness will rearrange is nearly Arrhenius.             the energy barriers to rearrangements. Our findings suggest that\par
                                                                                                                                    This indicates a well-defined energy barrier as well as a well-                it is possible to characterize much GB dynamical behavior using\par
                                                                                                                                    defined prefactor for the Arrhenius form for atoms of a given                  only local, atomic-scale structural information.\par
                                                                                                                                    softness. The decrease in the prefactor for low-softness atoms\par
                                                                                                                                    indicates that variations in entropy exhibit a dominant influence              Methods\par
                                                                                                                                    on the atomic dynamics in grain boundaries.                                    Large-scale molecular dynamics simulations (10) of nanocrystalline alu-\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   minum are performed as in ref. 11, producing a network of interacting\par
                                                                                                                                    grain boundary diffusion | atomic plasticity | machine learning |              GBs. The geometry is initialized using a random (Poisson point process)\par
                                                                                                                                    materials science | nanocrystalline                                            Voronoi tesselation and curvature\u8211?flow grain growth algorithm (12, 13).\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Atomic interactions model aluminum using the embedded atom method\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    A     tomic rearrangements, in which atoms overcome energy\par
                                                                                                                                          barriers to change neighbors, underpin the dynamics of\par
                                                                                                                                    grain boundaries (GBs) in polycrystalline materials that are ulti-\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Significance\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    mately responsible for such phenomena as grain growth (GB                           A machine learning method is used to analyze the atomic\par
                                                                                                                                    migration), GB diffusion, GB sliding, emission/absorption of lat-\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PHYSICS\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        structures that rearrange within the grain boundaries of\par
                                                                                                                                    tice dislocations, and point defect sink behavior. Assessing the                    polycrystals. The method readily separates the atomic struc-\par
                                                                                                                                    atomic-scale dynamics of GBs from their structure in realistic                      tures into those that rarely rearrange and those that often\par
                                                                                                                                    polycrystalline materials is inherently complicated. This com-                      rearrange. The likelihood of an atom rearranging under a\par
                                                                                                                                    plexity is associated with both the highly degenerate nature of                     thermal fluctuation is correlated with free volume and poten-\par
                                                                                                                                    GB structures (1\u8211?3) as well as the interconnected nature of the                     tial energy but is not entirely attributable to those quan-\par
                                                                                                                                    GB network within polycrystalline microstructures (e.g., associ-                    tities. A machine-learned quantity allows estimation of the\par
                                                                                                                                    ated with GB junctions, compatibility, etc.). The ensemble of                       energy barrier to rearrangement for particular atoms. The\par
                                                                                                                                    possible configurations produces a nearly continuous spectrum                       grain boundary atoms that rearrange most have more possible\par
                                                                                                                                    of energies and a correspondingly large set of local structures (3).                rearrangement trajectories rather than much-reduced energy\par
                                                                                                                                    The atomic structure at the GB exhibits some order imparted by                      barriers, as in bulk glasses. The work suggests that polycrys-\par
                                                                                                                                    the contiguous grains but also becomes trapped in metastable                        tal plasticity can be studied in part from the local atomic\par
                                                                                                                                    minima in a complex energy landscape reminiscent of that of                         structural environments without traditional classification of\par
                                                                                                                                    a glass (3\u8211?5). This suggests that methods appropriate for glass                     microstructure.\par
                                                                                                                                    dynamics may be fruitful for understanding the dynamics internal\par
                                                                                                                                    to GBs in polycrystals.                                                        Author contributions: T.A.S., E.D.C., S.S.S., D.J.S., and A.J.L. designed research; T.A.S.\par
                                                                                                                                       Previously, it has been shown that low-frequency quasilocal-                and S.L.T. performed research; T.A.S., S.L.T., and A.J.L. contributed new reagents/analytic\par
                                                                                                                                    ized vibrational modes can be used to identify atoms that are                  tools; T.A.S. and E.D.C. analyzed data; and T.A.S., D.J.S., and A.J.L. wrote the paper.y\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    likely to rearrange in both glasses (6, 7) and GBs (8). Here, we               The authors declare no conflict of interest.y\par
                                                                                                                                    push the analogy between GBs and glasses further by using a                    This article is a PNAS Direct Submission.y\par
                                                                                                                                    machine learning analysis, originally developed to study atomic                Published under the PNAS license.y\par
                                                                                                                                    rearrangements in glasses, to characterize the local atomic rear-              Data deposition: Data, simulation software, and input files have been deposited in\par
                                                                                                                                    rangements in molecular dynamics simulations of polycrystalline                GitHub, github.com/SimonsGlass/GBAnalysisData.y\par
                                                                                                                                    solids. The rearrangements occur as atoms thermally fluctuate                  1\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To whom correspondence should be addressed. Email: tsharp@sas.upenn.edu.y\par
                                                                                                                                    over local barriers between metastable sites. On long timescales,              2\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Present address: Google Brain, Google Incorporated, Mountain View, CA 94043.y\par
                                                                                                                                    asymmetries in these dynamics give rise to kinetic phenomena,                  This article contains supporting information online at www.pnas.org/lookup/suppl/doi:10.\par
                                                                                                                                    such as GB migration, creep, and defect emission, but here we                  1073/pnas.1807176115/-/DCSupplemental.y\par
                                                                                                                                    consider the individual atomic rearrangements within the GB.                   Published online October 9, 2018.\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.1807176115                                                    PNAS | October 23, 2018 | vol. 115 | no. 43 | 10943\u8211?10947\par
                                                                                                                                    (14). The grains are face-centered cubic (FCC) with nominal nearest neigh-             The local structural environment around any atom is described as a point\par
                                                                                                                                    bor distance d of approximately 2.8 A\u778? and a melting temperature of                 in a high-dimensional space in which each orthogonal axis corresponds to\par
                                                                                                                                    Tm = 926 K. The system of 4 million atoms is simulated at a fixed tem-              possible values of a different SF. The SVM identifies the hyperplane in this\par
                                                                                                                                    perature, T, using a Nose\u769?\u8211?Hoover thermostat. The atomic positions are              space that best separates the two groups of atoms in the training set (gen-\par
                                                                                                                                    averaged over 0.1-ps intervals to reduce the highest-frequency atomic               eralized linear regression). We find that 96% of atoms with yi = 1 fall on\par
                                                                                                                                    vibrations.                                                                         what we define as the \u8220?positive\u8221? side of the hyperplane and that 90% of\par
                                                                                                                                       The microstructure of the simulated nanocrystalline aluminum can be              the atoms with yi = \u8722?1 fall on the other (\u8220?negative\u8221?) side of the hyper-\par
                                                                                                                                    visualized using an adaptive common neighbor analysis (CNA) (15) (Fig.              plane. This justifies using a hyperplane rather than a more general surface\par
                                                                                                                                    1A) or Voronoi topology (VoroTop) analysis (12, 16) (Fig. 1B) to distinguish        to separate the two groups.\par
                                                                                                                                    grains from GBs. Both CNA and VoroTop assess local crystalline structure\par
                                                                                                                                    around an atom using the relative positions of the atom\u8217?s neighbors.                Results\par
                                                                                                                                    CNA defines neighbors as those atoms within a cutoff distance some-                 Linking Structure and Dynamics. For any atom, the point charac-\par
                                                                                                                                    what larger than d and compares which neighbors are also neighbors                  terizing its local structural environment can then be compared\par
                                                                                                                                    of each other. Lists of shared neighbors are then compared with those\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        with the hyperplane in SF space. The signed normal distance\par
                                                                                                                                    generated from ideal crystalline lattices. In contrast, VoroTop does not\par
                                                                                                                                    impose a cutoff distance but analyzes the atomic Voronoi cell structure\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        from the point to the hyperplane defines the value of the soft-\par
                                                                                                                                    to determine similarity to cells from perturbed crystalline lattices. This          ness, S (9). Fig. 1D shows the system with each atom colored\par
                                                                                                                                    method more readily identifies crystalline environments, recognizing 89%            according to its softness. Atoms with large positive softness (red\par
                                                                                                                                    of atoms in the simulation in Fig. 1 as FCC compared with 78% by CNA. The           in Fig. 1D) tend to lie in GBs, while those with large nega-\par
                                                                                                                                    VoroTop analysis is also much more robust against thermal fluctuations, so          tive softness (blue in Fig. 1D) lie within the grain interiors as\par
Downloaded from https://www.pnas.org by HEBREW UNIVERSITY HARMAN SCIENCES LIBRARY on March 18, 2026 from IP address 132.64.99.71.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    that the identified GB regions do not grow significantly with temperature           expected. In SI Appendix, we find that softness is partially corre-\par
                                                                                                                                    up to 0.8 Tm .                                                                      lated with other structural quantities, such as free atomic volume,\par
                                                                                                                                       Our aim is to characterize the propensity for an atom to rearrange. We           but that softness is considerably more predictive of whether\par
                                                                                                                                    follow a procedure designed for glassy systems (9, 17\u8211?19) that uses a sup-\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        atoms rearrange.\par
                                                                                                                                    port vector machine (SVM; a supervised machine learning technique) (20) to\par
                                                                                                                                    identify correlations between the local structure around each atom and its\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           We note several interesting features in Fig. 1 associated with\par
                                                                                                                                    rearrangements. Complete details are given in SI Appendix. A descriptor, or         the considerable variation in softness along the GBs in the sys-\par
                                                                                                                                    fingerprint, of the local structure around each atom is calculated by evalu-        tem. Comparing Fig. 1A with Fig. 1D, we see that the GB above\par
                                                                                                                                    ating a set of so-called structure functions (SFs) (21). SFs are functions of the   the label (1) has small softness relative to the other GBs in the\par
                                                                                                                                    relative positions of the atoms out to a cutoff distance d0 = 5.0 A\u778? from a         system. Examination of the structure of that GB shows that it is\par
                                                                                                                                    central atom, about twice the interatomic spacing. We use two types of SFs          a large-angle twist GB lying along a close-packed \{111\} plane.\par
                                                                                                                                    to ensure that different atomic environments lead to different fingerprints         Such a GB provides only very localized distortions to the crys-\par
                                                                                                                                    (21, 22). The first type depends on the radial distribution of neighbors from       tal structure of the grains, and few atomic rearrangements occur\par
                                                                                                                                    the central atom, whereas the second type encodes the distribution of trian-\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        there.\par
                                                                                                                                    gles of varying angles formed by the central atom with pairs of neighbors.\par
                                                                                                                                    (The complete functions are given in SI Appendix.)\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           At label (2) in Fig. 1, the viewing plane is nearly coplanar\par
                                                                                                                                       Next, we identify which atoms rearrange in the course of the dynami-\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        with the GB, showing both structural and dynamic heterogeneity\par
                                                                                                                                    cal simulation. For this, we use a standard atom-based quantity, phop (t) (23,      within the GB. The position in the microstructure labeled (3) in\par
                                                                                                                                    24); phop (t) becomes large when the atom moves a long distance on the              Fig. 1 shows the intersection of a coherent twin boundary with\par
                                                                                                                                    time scale of atomic vibrations (SI Appendix). Examination of Fig. 1C shows         a more general GB. The twin boundary is no softer than the\par
                                                                                                                                    that phop is only large at the GBs (marked as red or blue atoms in Fig. 1           grain interior. Its intersection with the GB, however, changes the\par
                                                                                                                                    A and B). Rearrangements are defined as events that exceed the threshold            GB character (misorientation) and the resulting softness such\par
                                                                                                                                                        2\par
                                                                                                                                    phop > pc = 1.0 A\u778? . There is also considerable variation within and between        that the segment of the GB above the intersection with the twin\par
                                                                                                                                    GBs; although 22% of the atoms are in disordered environments in our                boundary is significantly softer than the segment of the GB just\par
                                                                                                                                    microstructure according to CNA, at any instant fewer than 0.06% of atoms\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                        2               below the intersection. A lattice vacancy is seen near label (4)\par
                                                                                                                                    are rearranging, and only 0.5% of the atoms have phop > 0.5 A\u778? .\par
                                                                                                                                       To correlate rearrangements to atomic environments, we construct a\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in Fig. 1; it is softer than the surrounding lattice but not as soft\par
                                                                                                                                    training set for the supervised machine learning algorithm. We choose               as many of the GB sites. This is consistent with earlier work\par
                                                                                                                                    atoms to put into the training set based on whether they arrange within             that analyzed vibrational modes and found that vacancies were\par
                                                                                                                                    a 200-fs window (we label these yi = 1) or do not rearrange over a much             more mechanically stable than GBs (25). Indeed, we find that\par
                                                                                                                                    longer time (1.8-ps) period (we label these yi = \u8722?1).                               vacancies have softness S \u8776? 0.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    Fig. 1. A small region of a cross-section through the 3D polycrystalline aluminum microstructure at T = 463 K as visualized by (A) CNA and (B) VoroTop (12).\par
                                                                                                                                    Grain interiors are locally FCC (white atoms), while stacking faults and twin boundaries are visible as locally hexagonal close-packed (HCP) structures (red\par
                                                                                                                                    atoms); atoms within general GBs are neither FCC nor HCP (blue atoms). Positions are averaged over a 0.1-ps window. (C) The same atoms colored by their\par
                                                                                                                                    instantaneous value of phop (A\u778?2 ) as indicated by the color bar. (D) The same atoms colored according to their softness as indicated by the color bar.\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    10944 | www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.1807176115                                                                                                 Sharp et al.\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   observed range of softness. The magnitude of the energy barrier\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   is consistent with nudged elastic band calculations of structural\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   transitions between specific metastable states in bicrystals using\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the same interatomic potential used here (27). The dominant\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   energy barriers, of order 100 meV, are large compared with\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   applied elastic stress (the yield stress of Al is \u8764? 10 MPa or\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 meV). This shows that these atomic rearrangements will be\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   largely thermally activated and that applied stresses have only\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   little effect, and it suggests that asymmetries in transition rates\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   underlie stress-driven microstructure evolution.\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Changing softness has much more of an effect on the prefac-\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tor in the Arrhenius relationship, \u931?, than it does on the barrier\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   \u8710?E . For a thermally activated process, \u931? can be viewed as a\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   generalized attempt frequency or alternatively, as an entropic\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   contribution to the free energy barrier. The increase of \u931? with\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   softness suggests that soft atoms have more directions for rear-\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   rangement or more paths that can take them to the transition\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   state. This is in contrast to bulk glasses in which it was found that\par
Downloaded from https://www.pnas.org by HEBREW UNIVERSITY HARMAN SCIENCES LIBRARY on March 18, 2026 from IP address 132.64.99.71.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   both \u8710?E and \u931? decreased with increasing S . We, therefore, see\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   that the reason that softer atoms are more likely to rearrange in\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GBs is that they are the ones with slightly lower-energy barriers\par
                                                                                                                                    Fig. 2. The distribution of softness, S, within grain interiors and at GBs.    and substantially increased \u931?.\par
                                                                                                                                    The interiors are distinguished from GBs on the basis of their VoroTops.          We consider the origin of this difference from bulk glasses. In\par
                                                                                                                                    About 89% of atoms are in an FCC environment. (Inset) The probability to       polycrystals and unlike in bulk glasses, there are crystalline grains\par
                                                                                                                                    rearrange, PR , rises monotonically with softness, S, over several orders of   that restrict the rearrangements. Atoms in the crystalline grain\par
                                                                                                                                    magnitude for all temperatures.\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   mostly cannot participate in rearrangements due to the large\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   potential energy barrier to move them significantly. With fewer\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   atoms able to participate, the number of possible rearrange-\par
                                                                                                                                       Fig. 2 puts these results into context. Here, we decompose                  ment trajectories (and \u931?) is reduced. SI Appendix shows explicitly\par
                                                                                                                                    the distribution of softness from the polycrystalline system into              that low-softness (S \u8776? 0) atoms are also in the most crystal-like\par
                                                                                                                                    contributions from the grain interiors (i.e., FCC regions as deter-            neighborhoods as indicated by Voronoi volume, radial symmetry,\par
                                                                                                                                    mined by the VoroTop analysis) and all other regions. The least                and potential energy. These crystalline neighborhoods evidently\par
                                                                                                                                    soft atoms are FCC, while the softest are associated with defects.             restrict \u931? sufficiently to have a large impact on the GB dynamics,\par
                                                                                                                                    Softness is more homogeneous in the grain interiors than in the                leading to low-\u931?, low-S atoms.\par
                                                                                                                                    regions that VoroTop defines as disordered (mostly GBs). The                      The best fit lines in Fig. 3 indicate no common intersection\par
                                                                                                                                    softest atoms tend to lie near the center of the GBs. In both                  point. This implies that there is no one temperature at which\par
                                                                                                                                    regions, the distribution shifts slightly with temperature, reflect-\par
                                                                                                                                    ing a shift in the distribution of local atomic configurations due to\par
                                                                                                                                    thermal distortions of the crystalline grains as well as an increase\par
                                                                                                                                    in the effective GB thickness.\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10-1\par
                                                                                                                                       Although we used only a binary classification to define the\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHYSICS\par
                                                                                                                                    hyperplane, the magnitude of the softness is predictive of dynam-                                                                           S\par
                                                                                                                                    ics. We establish this by studying the probability that an atom\par
                                                                                                                                    rearranges, PR (S ), defined as the time average of the fraction\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.0\par
                                                                                                                                    of atoms in the system with a given S with phop > pc . Fig. 2,\par
                                                                                                                                    Inset shows that the fraction of atoms with a given S that will                                                                            3.0\par
                                                                                                                                    rearrange, PR (S ), is a strongly increasing function of softness\par
                                                                                                                                    S . PR (S ) increases monotonically with S , and S = 1 atoms are                     10-2\par
                                                                                                                                    more than 100 times more likely to rearrange than S = \u8722?1 atoms.                                                                            2.0\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PR(S,T)\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    At large S , PR (S ) saturates, as the fraction of hopping atoms\par
                                                                                                                                    cannot exceed one.\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.0\par
                                                                                                                                    Extracting the Energy Barriers of Atomic Rearrangements. In ear-\par
                                                                                                                                    lier work on glassy systems, it was discovered that the probability\par
                                                                                                                                    that an atom rearranges, PR (S ), is Arrhenius for each value of\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10-3\par
                                                                                                                                    S (9, 19, 26), implying a well-defined energy barrier associated\par
                                                                                                                                    with rearrangements, \u8710?E (S ). We, therefore, study the temper-                                                                             0.0\par
                                                                                                                                    ature dependence of PR (S ). Fig. 3 shows that the temperature\par
                                                                                                                                    dependence of PR (S ) is indeed well described as Arrhenius\par
                                                                                                                                    at temperatures T < 0.8 Tm , showing that softness reflects the                                                                           -0.5\par
                                                                                                                                    energy barrier for an atom to rearrange.                                             10-4\par
                                                                                                                                       The Arrhenius form implies that the probability to rearrange\par
                                                                                                                                    can be written                                                                           1.0        1.2         1.4         1.6        1.8         2.0\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tm/T\par
                                                                                                                                                         PR (S ) = e\u931?(S ) e\u8722?\u8710?E (S )/kB T .                  [1]\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Fig. 3. The probability of rearrangement exhibits Arrhenius behavior at\par
                                                                                                                                    Fig. 4 indicates that the effective energy barriers decrease slightly          temperatures below 0.80 Tm . Fits to the lower four temperatures are shown\par
                                                                                                                                    with softness, changing by less than a factor of two over the                  as dashed lines.\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    Sharp et al.                                                                                     PNAS | October 23, 2018 | vol. 115 | no. 43 | 10945\par
                                                                                                                                     3                                                                           features, the last 47 features to be eliminated (and therefore,\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the top 47 most important quantities) are all angular functions.\par
                                                                                                                                     2                                                                           This is in stark contrast to bulk glasses, where all of the angu-\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 lar functions could be eliminated entirely with less than a 2%\par
                                                                                                                                     1                                                                           cost in accuracy (9); 14 angular functions are sufficient to retain\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 77% accuracy, and accuracy remains near 69% using the sole\par
                                                                                                                                     0                                                                           SF identified as most important. The increased importance of\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 angular information here may seem natural given the role of\par
                                                                                                                                    -1                                                                           the degree and relative orientation of the nearby crystallinity in\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    -2\par
                                                                                                                                           \u931?                        300                                          allowing rearrangements. The contribution of each specific SF to\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 softness is quantified in SI Appendix. The properties of the spe-\par
                                                                                                                                                         \u916?E (meV)\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                                                    200                                          cific structures that lead to rearrangements should be explored\par
                                                                                                                                    -3                              100\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 further.\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    -4                                  0\par
                                                                                                                                                                            0       1   2       3        4\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Discussion\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In summary, we have used machine learning to introduce a\par
                                                                                                                                            0                       1           2           3            4       structural quantity (softness) that is strongly correlated with\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the dynamics of atomic rearrangements in GBs. Correlations\par
Downloaded from https://www.pnas.org by HEBREW UNIVERSITY HARMAN SCIENCES LIBRARY on March 18, 2026 from IP address 132.64.99.71.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 between local structure and rearrangements are so strong in\par
                                                                                                                                    Fig. 4. The extracted energy barrier scaled by the thermal energy at the     these nanocrystalline metals that over 96% of the observed\par
                                                                                                                                    melting temperature \u8710?E/kB Tm (blue) and \u931? (black) extracted from the rear-   atomic rearrangements correspond to atoms for which S > 0.\par
                                                                                                                                    rangement probability (Eq. 1). (Inset) \u8710?E vs. S. The energy barrier varies\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The only information that enters the machine learning is pro-\par
                                                                                                                                    slightly with S, while \u931? increases strongly with S.\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 vided by the training set, which is chosen to represent atomic\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 environments just about to rearrange and those that do not\par
                                                                                                                                    rearrangement dynamics become independent of softness or                     rearrange. A binary classification on this training set yields a\par
                                                                                                                                    local structure. This contrasts with the behavior of glassy systems,         remarkably rich lode of information. Softness can distinguish\par
                                                                                                                                    which display a common intersection point (9) at what is known               certain GBs, where rearrangements are imminent, from those\par
                                                                                                                                    as the onset temperature. This temperature marks the onset of                that are markedly static, and it can reveal differences even within\par
                                                                                                                                    features associated with supercooled liquids, such as nonexpo-               a given GB. It also gives information about the energy landscape\par
                                                                                                                                    nential relaxation, a non-Arrhenius dependence of the relaxation             of the system, providing both the typical energy barriers and\par
                                                                                                                                    time on temperature and kinetic heterogeneities. The fact that               the attempt frequencies for atoms to rearrange\u8212?based solely\par
                                                                                                                                    there is no indication of an onset temperature for this system               on the their local structural environments. Such information is\par
                                                                                                                                    indicates that GBs, despite exhibiting some glass-like properties            computationally expensive via existing methods. Interestingly, we\par
                                                                                                                                    (4), also exhibit behavior that is very unlike glasses.                      show (SI Appendix) that, while softness correlates to some degree\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 with other structural parameters that identify defects in crys-\par
                                                                                                                                    Analysis of SVM. We next analyze which SFs are most responsible              tals, it is remarkably superior in identifying which defects/local\par
                                                                                                                                    for the softness of the atom. Recall that the structural quantities          environments are active in GB dynamics.\par
                                                                                                                                    that we use to characterize the local environment of each atom                  Our conclusion that the variation of entropy plays a cen-\par
                                                                                                                                    fall into two classes: radial SFs depend on only the radial distribu-        tral role in the atomic rearrangements at GBs is reminiscent\par
                                                                                                                                    tion of atoms from the central atom, and angular SFs additionally            of prior observations about nanoconfined viscous fluids. Specifi-\par
                                                                                                                                    depend on the angles formed with pairs of neighboring atoms                  cally, in refs. 28 and 29, it was found that the total thermodynamic\par
                                                                                                                                    around the central atom. In bulk glasses, angular SFs were unim-             entropy of the confined fluid [specifically, the excess entropy (the\par
                                                                                                                                    portant compared with the radial SFs, and in fact, softness was              entropy above that of an ideal gas at the same density and tem-\par
                                                                                                                                    almost entirely attributable to the number of neighboring atoms              perature)] closely reflects the rate of structural relaxation. The\par
                                                                                                                                    at the distances of the first peak and valley of the pair correla-           atoms in GBs are somewhat analogous to a confined fluid, not-\par
                                                                                                                                    tion function of the material, g(r ) (9). In GBs, one may expect             ing that the complicated confinement in GBs is due to structured\par
                                                                                                                                    increased importance of angular SFs, since they are sensitive to\par
                                                                                                                                    the relative orientations of the lattices (i.e., the crystallography\par
                                                                                                                                    of the GB).\par
                                                                                                                                       To connect with studies on bulk glasses, we exclude crystalline\par
                                                                                                                                    atoms from the training set using CNA, although we find that\par
                                                                                                                                    this does not significantly change the relative importance of most\par
                                                                                                                                    SFs. Excluding crystalline atoms does, however, decrease the                        0.76\par
                                                                                                                                    fraction of training set atoms that are accurately classified from\par
                                                                                                                                    93 to 79%, since now the SVM discriminates solely between\par
                                                                                                                                    disordered atoms.                                                                   0.72\par
                                                                                                                                       We use recursive feature elimination (RFE) to determine\par
                                                                                                                                    the important features. In RFE, the SVM is first trained using\par
                                                                                                                                    all SFs. Then, the SF that contributes the least weight to the\par
                                                                                                                                    hyperplane is identified and eliminated. Training is repeated,                      0.68\par
                                                                                                                                    iteratively identifying and eliminating the least important SF and                         0     8     16     24    32     40    48     56     64     72\par
                                                                                                                                    simplifying the fingerprint while attempting to retain the highest\par
                                                                                                                                    accuracy.\par
                                                                                                                                       Fig. 5 shows the decrease in accuracy as the number M of                  Fig. 5. RFE determination of the most important SFs. The fraction of\par
                                                                                                                                    SFs decreases. The color of the symbol indicates the class of                training set atoms that are accurately classified, fa , decreases as SFs are\par
                                                                                                                                    the least significant SF, which then becomes eliminated. All                 eliminated. The color of the symbol shows whether the least important SF\u8212?\par
                                                                                                                                    radial functions are eliminated quickly (red hollow circles in               which then gets eliminated\u8212?is a radial SF (red hollow circle) or an angular\par
                                                                                                                                    Fig. 5), decreasing accuracy fa only slightly to 77%. Of 72 total            SF (blue solid circle).\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    10946 | www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.1807176115                                                                                          Sharp et al.\par
                                                                                                                                    surfaces of crystalline grains that can themselves rearrange and                               underlying structure of their hosts. More optimistically, we note\par
                                                                                                                                    the configurations are not in equilibrium. Our approach attempts                               that the larger-scale dynamics are dictated by the interplay of\par
                                                                                                                                    to infer the local contributions to the entropy that are involved                              softness with atomic rearrangements\u8212?while softness predicts\par
                                                                                                                                    in the rearrangements. The observation from Fig. 4 that struc-                                 the propensity to rearrange, a rearrangement alters local struc-\par
                                                                                                                                    tures that tend to rearrange more frequently are associated with                               ture and hence, softness. Understanding this interplay is a step\par
                                                                                                                                    higher entropy constitutes a local version of the statement that                               toward constructing a theory of plasticity that has the potential\par
                                                                                                                                    the entropy underlies the relaxations. However, the characteris-                               to span the entire gamut of materials from crystalline to glassy.\par
                                                                                                                                    tic local energy barrier additionally emerges from our analysis of\par
                                                                                                                                    atomic dynamics.                                                                               ACKNOWLEDGMENTS. Computational support was provided by the Labora-\par
                                                                                                                                       Our approach shows that focusing on the dynamics at the                                     tory for Research on the Structure of Matter High Performance Computing\par
                                                                                                                                    atomic scale can serve as a viable alternative to the classifica-                              cluster at the University of Pennsylvania (T.A.S.). We thank the University\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of Pennsylvania Materials Research Science and Engineering Centers. This\par
                                                                                                                                    tion of environments based on the rich and complex zoology of                                  work was supported by National Science Foundation (NSF) Grant NSF-DMR-\par
                                                                                                                                    crystallographically allowed defects. This approach, successfully                              1720530 (to T.A.S.); Department of Energy (DOE) Graduate Assistance in\par
                                                                                                                                    applied originally to glasses (9, 19), suggests that it is possible                            Areas of National Need Program Grant P200A160282 (to S.L.T.); Extreme Sci-\par
                                                                                                                                    to construct a single framework to describe atomic-scale dynam-                                ence and Engineering Discovery Environment via NSF Grant ACI-1053575 (to\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S.L.T.); US DOE, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Materials Sciences\par
                                                                                                                                    ics in systems with varying degrees of order/disorder. At the                                  and Engineering Award DE-FG02-05ER46199 (to S.S.S. and A.J.L.); US NSF\par
                                                                                                                                    very least, this approach is complementary to existing meth-                                   Division of Materials Research Grant DMR-1507013 (to D.J.S.); and Simons\par
                                                                                                                                    ods that strive to relate dynamic materials phenomena to the                                   Foundation Grant 327939 (to A.J.L.).\par
Downloaded from https://www.pnas.org by HEBREW UNIVERSITY HARMAN SCIENCES LIBRARY on March 18, 2026 from IP address 132.64.99.71.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                     1. Sutton AP, Balluffi RW, Lu\u776?th H, Gibson JM (1996) Interfaces in crystalline materials      16. Lazar EA, Han J, Srolovitz DJ (2015) Topological framework for local structure analysis\par
                                                                                                                                        and surfaces and interfaces of solid materials. Phys Today 49:88.                              in condensed matter. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 112:E5769\u8211?E5776.\par
                                                                                                                                     2. Vitek V, Sutton A, Wang GJ, Schwartz D (1983) On the multiplicity of structures and        17. Cubuk ED, et al. (2015) Identifying structural flow defects in disordered solids using\par
                                                                                                                                        grain boundaries. Scripta Metall 17:183\u8211?189.                                                   machine-learning methods. Phys Rev Lett 114:108001.\par
                                                                                                                                     3. Han J, Vitek V, Srolovitz DJ (2016) Grain-boundary metastability and its statistical       18. Cubuk ED, Schoenholz SS, Kaxiras E, Liu AJ (2016) Structural properties of defects in\par
                                                                                                                                        properties. Acta Mater 104:259\u8211?273.                                                            glassy liquids. J Phys Chem B 120:6139\u8211?6146.\par
                                                                                                                                     4. Zhang H, Srolovitz DJ, Douglas JF, Warren JA (2009) Grain boundaries exhibit the           19. Schoenholz SS, Cubuk ED, Kaxiras E, Liu AJ (2017) Relationship between local struc-\par
                                                                                                                                        dynamics of glass-forming liquids. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 106:7735\u8211?7740.                       ture and relaxation in out-of-equilibrium glassy systems. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA\par
                                                                                                                                     5. Hou Z, et al. (2015) Atomic dynamics of grain boundaries in bulk nanocrystalline               114:263\u8211?267.\par
                                                                                                                                        aluminum: A molecular dynamics simulation study. Comput Mater Sci 108:177\u8211?                 20. Chang CC, Lin CJ (2011) LIBSVM: A library for support vector machines. ACM\par
                                                                                                                                        182.                                                                                           Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology (ACM, New York), Vol 2:27.\par
                                                                                                                                     6. Manning ML, Liu AJ (2011) Vibrational modes identify soft spots in a sheared               21. Barto\u769?k AP, Kondor R, Csa\u769?nyi G (2013) On representing chemical environments. Phys\par
                                                                                                                                        disordered packing. Phys Rev Lett 107:108302.                                                  Rev B 87:184115.\par
                                                                                                                                     7. Schoenholz SS, Liu AJ, Riggleman RA, Rottler J (2014) Understanding plastic                22. Behler J, Parrinello M (2007) Generalized neural-network representation of high-\par
                                                                                                                                        deformation in thermal glasses from single-soft-spot dynamics. Phys Rev X 4:031014.            dimensional potential-energy surfaces. Phys Rev Lett 98:146401.\par
                                                                                                                                     8. Rottler J, Schoenholz SS, Liu AJ (2014) Predicting plasticity with soft vibrational        23. Keys AS, Hedges LO, Garrahan JP, Glotzer SC, Chandler D (2011) Excitations are\par
                                                                                                                                        modes: From dislocations to glasses. Phys Rev E 89:042304.                                     localized and relaxation is hierarchical in glass-forming liquids. Phys Rev X 1:021013.\par
                                                                                                                                     9. Schoenholz SS, Cubuk ED, Sussman DM, Kaxiras E, Liu AJ (2016) A structural approach        24. Smessaert A, Rottler J (2013) Distribution of local relaxation events in an aging three-\par
                                                                                                                                        to relaxation in glassy liquids. Nat Phys 12:469\u8211?471.                                          dimensional glass: Spatiotemporal correlation and dynamical heterogeneity. Phys Rev\par
                                                                                                                                    10. Plimpton S (1995) Fast parallel algorithms for short-range molecular dynamics. J               E 88:022314.\par
                                                                                                                                        Comput Phys 117:1\u8211?19.                                                                      25. Chen K, et al. (2013) Phonons in two-dimensional soft colloidal crystals. Phys Rev E\par
                                                                                                                                    11. Thomas SL, King AH, Srolovitz DJ (2016) When twins collide: Twin junctions in                  88:022315.\par
                                                                                                                                        nanocrystalline nickel. Acta Mater 113:301\u8211?310.                                            26. Sussman DM, Schoenholz SS, Cubuk ED, Liu AJ (2017) Disconnecting structure and\par
                                                                                                                                    12. Mason JK, Lazar EA, MacPherson RD, Srolovitz DJ (2015) Geometric and topo-                     dynamics in glassy thin films. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 114:10601\u8211?10605.\par
                                                                                                                                        logical properties of the canonical grain-growth microstructure. Phys Rev E 92:            27. Burbery N, Das R, Ferguson W (2016) Thermo-kinetic mechanisms for grain boundary\par
                                                                                                                                        063308.                                                                                        structure multiplicity, thermal instability and defect interactions. Mater Chem Phys\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PHYSICS\par
                                                                                                                                    13. Lazar EA, Mason JK, MacPherson RD, Srolovitz DJ (2011) A more accurate                         179:254\u8211?265.\par
                                                                                                                                        three-dimensional grain growth algorithm. Acta Mater 59:6837\u8211?6847.                         28. Mittal J, Errington JR, Truskett TM (2007) Relationships between self-diffusivity, pack-\par
                                                                                                                                    14. Mendelev M, Kramer M, Becker C, Asta M (2008) Analysis of semi-empirical inter-                ing fraction, and excess entropy in simple bulk and confined fluids. J Phys Chem B\par
                                                                                                                                        atomic potentials appropriate for simulation of crystalline and liquid Al and Cu. Philos       111:10054\u8211?10063.\par
                                                                                                                                        Mag 88:1723\u8211?1750.                                                                          29. Ingebrigtsen TS, Errington JR, Truskett TM, Dyre JC (2013) Predicting how nanocon-\par
                                                                                                                                    15. Stukowski A (2010) Visualization and analysis of atomistic simulation data with ovito\u8211?         finement changes the relaxation time of a supercooled liquid. Phys Rev Lett\par
                                                                                                                                        the open visualization tool. Modell Simul Mater Sci Eng 18:015012.                             111:235901.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                                                                                                    Sharp et al.                                                                                                           PNAS | October 23, 2018 | vol. 115 | no. 43 | 10947\par

}