{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
                                        PHYSICAL REVIEW E 97, 043002 (2018)\par
\par
\par
\par
                               Thermodynamic dislocation theory: Bauschinger effect\par
\par
                                                          K. C. Le and T. M. Tran\par
                     Lehrstuhl f\u252?r Mechanik\u8211?Materialtheorie, Ruhr-Universit\u228?t Bochum, D-44780 Bochum, Germany\par
\par
                                                (Received 12 March 2018; published 23 April 2018)\par
\par
                 The thermodynamic dislocation theory developed for nonuniform plastic deformations is used here to simulate\par
              the stress-strain curves for crystals subjected to antiplane shear-controlled load reversal. We show that the presence\par
              of the positive back stress during the load reversal reduces the magnitude of shear stress required to pull excess\par
              dislocations back to the center of the specimen. There, the excess dislocations of opposite signs meet and annihilate\par
              each other leading to the Bauschinger effect.\par
\par
              DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.97.043002\par
\par
\par
\par
                      I. INTRODUCTION                                      and strain rate, and thus to be key ingredients of the theory.\par
                                                                           In Sec. III we discretize the obtained system of governing\par
    The thermodynamic dislocation theory (TDT), proposed\par
                                                                           equations and develop the numerical method for its solution.\par
initially by Langer, Bouchbinder, and Lookman [1] and\par
                                                                           The results of numerical simulations as well as the physical\par
developed further in [2\u8211?7], deals with the uniform plastic\par
                                                                           explanation of the Bauschinger effect are presented in Sec. IV.\par
deformations of crystals driven by a constant strain rate. During\par
                                                                           We conclude in Sec. V with some remarks about the signifi-\par
these uniform plastic deformations the crystal may have only\par
                                                                           cance of these calculations.\par
redundant dislocations whose resultant Burgers vector van-\par
ishes. As shown in [8,9], the extension of TDT to nonuniform\par
plastic deformations should account for excess dislocations                                   II. EQUATIONS OF MOTION\par
due to the incompatibility of the plastic distortion [10]. In all\par
                                                                              Suppose, for simplicity, that the single crystal beam has a\par
studies mentioned above, only the case of proportional loading\par
                                                                           rectangular cross section, of width c and height h, that lies\par
in one direction with the constant strain rate is considered.\par
                                                                           in the (x,y) plane. This crystal beam is placed in a \u8220?hard\par
The purpose of this paper is to explore use of TDT for\par
                                                                           device\u8221? such that at its side boundary the displacement in the\par
nonuniform plastic deformations [8,9] in modeling crystals\par
                                                                           z direction is prescribed: w = \u947? (t)y, with \u947? (t) being the shear\par
subjected to loading, unloading, and further loading in the\par
                                                                           strain regarded as a control parameter (see Fig. 1). Under this\par
opposite direction in the antiplane shear mode. Our challenge is\par
                                                                           condition, dislocations cannot reach the boundary, as otherwise\par
to simulate the stress strain curves exhibiting the Bauschinger\par
                                                                           the steps formed by them (equal to the length of the Burgers\par
effect and explain these based on the physical mechanism of\par
                                                                           vector) would contradict the smoothness of the displacement\par
movement and annihilation of excess dislocations during the\par
                                                                           specified there. In this sense, the \u8220?hard\u8221? boundary conditions\par
load reversal.\par
                                                                           model the grain boundaries that serve as obstacles and prevent\par
    The thermodynamic dislocation theory is based on two\par
                                                                           dislocations to leave the grain. If h  c, we may neglect the\par
unconventional ideas. The first of these is that, under nonequi-\par
                                                                           end effect near y = 0 and y = h and assume that all state\par
librium conditions, the atomically slow configurational de-\par
                                                                           variables depend only on the spatial coordinate x.\par
grees of freedom of dislocated crystals are characterized by an\par
                                                                              Now, let this system be driven at a constant shear rate\par
effective disorder temperature that differs from the ordinary\par
                                                                           \u947?\u775? \u8801? q0 /t0 , where t0 is a characteristic microscopic time scale.\par
kinetic-vibrational temperature. Both of these temperatures\par
                                                                           Because the system is undergoing steady-state antiplane shear,\par
are thermodynamically well defined variables whose equa-\par
                                                                           we can replace the time t by the total strain \u947? so that t0 \u8706?/\u8706?t \u8594?\par
tions of motion determine the irreversible behaviors of these\par
                                                                           q0 \u8706?/\u8706?\u947? . The equation of motion for the flow stress becomes\par
systems. The second principal idea is that entanglement of\par
dislocations is the overwhelmingly dominant cause of resis-                                                            \par
                                                                                                 \u8706?\u964?Y              q(\u947? )\par
tance to deformation in crystals. These two ideas have led                                             =\u956? 1\u8722?             ,               (2.1)\par
                                                                                                 \u8706?\u947?                 q0\par
to successfully predictive theories of strain hardening [1,2],\par
steady-state stresses over exceedingly wide ranges of strain               with \u956? being the shear modulus. Note that, for the uniform\par
rates [1], thermal softening during deformation [6], yielding              plastic deformation involving only redundant dislocations,\par
transitions between elastic and plastic responses [3,5], and               q(\u947? )/t0 equals the plastic shear rate \u946?\u775?, with \u946? being the\par
shear banding instabilities [4,7].                                         uniform plastic distortion, but in general when \u946? is nonuniform\par
    We start in Sec. II with a brief annotated summary of                  it is not necessarily so.\par
the equations of motion to be used here. Our focus is on                       The state variables that describe this system are the elastic\par
the physical significance of the various parameters that occur             strain \u947? \u8722? \u946?, the areal densities of redundant dislocations \u961?r\par
in them. We discuss which of these parameters are expected                 and excess dislocations \u961?g \u8801? |\u946?,x |/b (where b is the length\par
to be material-specific constants, independent of temperature              of the Burgers vector), and the effective disorder temperature\par
\par
2470-0045/2018/97(4)/043002(7)                                     043002-1                                    \u169?2018 American Physical Society\par
K. C. LE AND T. M. TRAN                                                                        PHYSICAL REVIEW E 97, 043002 (2018)\par
\par
\par
                                         y                             and a denoting the average spacing between dislocations in the\par
                                                                       limit of infinite \u967? (a is a length of the order of tens of atomic\par
                                                                       spacings). The coefficient K\u961? is an energy conversion factor\par
                                                                       that, according to arguments presented in [1] and [4], should\par
                                                                       be independent of both strain rate and temperature. The other\par
                                                                       quantity that appears in the prefactor in Eq. (2.3) is\par
                                                                                                               \u8730? \par
               \u947?h                                                                 \u957?(\u952?,\u961?,q0 ) \u8801? ln\par
                                                                                                      1\par
                                                                                                         \u8722? ln ln\par
                                                                                                                    b \u961?\par
                                                       x                                              \u952?               q0\par
                                                                                                                             .      (2.4)\par
\par
                             h                                            The equation of motion for the effective temperature \u967?\par
                                        L                              is a statement of the first law of thermodynamics for the\par
                                                                       configurational subsystem:\par
                       c                                                                \u8706?\u967?       \u964?Y eD q\par
                                                                                                         \par
                                                                                                              \u967?\par
                                                                                                                 \par
          z                                                                             \u8706?\u947?\par
                                                                                           =K\par
                                                                                                  \u956? q0\par
                                                                                                          1\u8722?\par
                                                                                                              \u967?0\par
                                                                                                                  .         (2.5)\par
\par
               FIG. 1. Antiplane constrained shear.                    Here, \u967?0 is the steady-state value of \u967? for strain rates ap-\par
                                                                       preciably smaller than inverse atomic relaxation times, i.e.,\par
\u967? (cf. [3,11]). All four quantities, \u947? \u8722? \u946?, \u961?r , \u961?g , and \u967? , are      much smaller than t0\u8722?1 . The dimensionless factor K is inversely\par
functions of \u947? .                                                       proportional to the effective specific heat ceff . Unlike K\u961? , there\par
    The central, dislocation-specific ingredient of this analysis      is no reason to believe that K is a rate-independent constant. In\par
is the thermally activated depinning formula for q as a function       [5], K for copper was found to decrease from 17 to 12 when the\par
of a flow stress \u964?Y and a total dislocation density \u961? = \u961?r + \u961?g :      strain rate increased by a factor of 106 . Since we shall consider\par
                         \u8730?                                             changes in strain rate of at most a factor of 102 here, we shall\par
           q(\u964?Y ,\u961?) = b \u961?[fP (\u964?Y ,\u961?) \u8722? fP (\u8722?\u964?Y ,\u961?)],                   assume that K is a constant.\par
                                            \par
                                 1                                         The equation for the plastic distortion \u946? reads\par
          fP (\u964?Y ,\u961?) = exp \u8722? e\u8722?\u964?Y /\u964?T (\u961?) .                 (2.2)\par
                                 \u952?\par
                                                                                               \u964? \u8722? \u964?B \u8722? \u964?Y = 0.                      (2.6)\par
This is an Orowan relation of the form q = \u961? b v t0 in which\par
the speed of the dislocations v is given by the distance between       This equation is the balance of microforces acting on excess\par
them multiplied by the rate at which they are depinned from            dislocations. Here, the first term \u964? = \u956?(\u947? \u8722? \u946?) is the applied\par
each other. That rate is approximated here by the activation           shear stress, the second term the back stress due to the\par
terms fP (\u964?Y ,\u961?) and \u8722?fP (\u8722?\u964?Y ,\u961?), in which the energy barrier         interaction of excess dislocations, and the last one the flow\par
eP = kB TP (implicit in the scaling of \u952? = T /TP ) is reduced by       stress. This balance of microforces can be derived from the\par
                                                                \u8730?\par
the stress dependent factor e\u8722?\u964?Y /\u964?T (\u961?) , where \u964?T (\u961?) = \u956?T b \u961?       variational equation for irreversible processes [8,9] yielding\par
is the Taylor stress with \u956?T being proportional to \u956? (see                                   \par
Sec. III). Note that, when dealing with the load reversal,                           1 \u8706?\u966?m                    1 \u8706? 2 \u966?m\par
                                                                             \u964?B = \u8722?              sgn\u946?,x = \u8722? 2           \u946?,xx ,    (2.7)\par
antisymmetry is required in Eq. (2.2) both to preserve reflection                    b \u8706?\u961?g ,x                 b \u8706?(\u961?g )2\par
symmetry and to satisfy the second-law requirement that the\par
energy dissipation rate, \u964?Y q/q0 , is non-negative.                    with \u966?m being the free energy density of excess dislocations.\par
    The pinning energy eP is large, of the order of electron volts,    Berdichevsky [12] has found \u966?m for the locally periodic\par
so that \u952? is very small. As a result, q(\u964?Y ,\u961?) is an extremely         arrangement of excess screw dislocations. However, as shown\par
rapidly varying function of \u964?Y and \u952? . This strongly nonlinear         by us in [9], his expression must be extrapolated to the\par
behavior is the key to understanding yielding transitions and          extremely small or large dislocation densities to guarantee\par
shear banding as well as many other important features of              the existence of solution within TDT. Using the extrapolated\par
crystal plasticity. For example, the extremely slow variation of       energy proposed in [9] we find that\par
the steady-state flow stress as a function of strain rate discussed\par
                                                                                        k1 \u958? 2 + (2k0 k1 \u8722? 1)\u958? + k1 k02 \u8722? 2k0\par
in [1] is the converse of the extremely rapid variation of q as a           \u964?B = \u8722?\u956?b2                                         \u946?,xx , (2.8)\par
function of \u964?Y in Eq. (2.2).                                                                        4\u960? (k0 + \u958? )2\par
    The equation of motion for the total dislocation density \u961? =       where \u958? = b|\u946?,x |. Equation (2.6) is subjected to the Dirichlet\par
\u961?r + \u961?g describes energy flow. It says that some fraction of the       boundary condition \u946?(0) = \u946?(c) = 0.\par
power delivered to the system by external driving is converted\par
into the energy of dislocations, and that that energy is dissipated\par
according to a detailed-balance analysis involving the effective            III. DISCRETIZATION AND METHOD OF SOLUTION\par
temperature \u967? . This equation is                                          For the purpose of numerical integration of the system\par
        \u8706?\u961?                \u964?Y q                  \u961?                    of equations (2.1)\u8211?(2.8) it is convenient to introduce the\par
            = K\u961? 2                        1 \u8722?          ,       (2.3)   dimensionless variables and quantities\par
        \u8706?\u947?          a \u957?(\u952?,\u961?,q0 )2 \u956? q0        \u961?ss (\u967? )\par
with \u961?ss (\u967? ) = (1/a 2 )e\u8722?eD /\u967? being the steady-state value of \u961? at   x\u771? = x/b, \u961?\u771? = a 2 \u961?, \u964?\u771? = \u964?/\u956?, \u964?\u771?Y = \u964?Y /\u956?, \u964?\u771?B = \u964?B /\u956?.\par
given \u967? , eD a characteristic formation energy for dislocations,                                                            (3.1)\par
\par
                                                                 043002-2\par
THERMODYNAMIC DISLOCATION THEORY: BAUSCHINGER \u8230?                                                         PHYSICAL REVIEW E 97, 043002 (2018)\par
\par
The variable x\u771? changes from zero to c\u771? = c/b. Then we rewrite             reduced with the same rate from \u947? \u8727? to some negative value \u947?\u8727? ,\par
Eq. (2.2) in the form                                                      to be specified later. We postulate that the system of governing\par
                                      b                                    equations (3.7)\u8211?(3.10) remains valid during this load reversal.\par
                      q(\u964?Y ,\u961?) =        q\u771?(\u964?\u771?Y ,\u961?\u771?),               (3.2)   Besides, as initial conditions we propose that all quantities\par
                                      a                                    \u964?\u771?Y , \u961?\u771?, \u967?\u771?, and \u946? assume those values \u964?\u771?Y (\u947? \u8727? ), \u961?\u771?(\u947? \u8727? ), \u967?\u771? (\u947? \u8727? ),\par
where                                                                      and \u946?(\u947? \u8727? ) achieved at the end of the loading, thus satisfying\par
                           \par
           q\u771?(\u964?\u771?Y ,\u961?\u771?) =    \u961?\u771?[f\u732?P (\u964?\u771?Y ,\u961?\u771?) \u8722? f\u732?P (\u8722?\u964?\u771?Y ,\u961?\u771?)].    (3.3)   the continuity requirement. Since the equations remain valid\par
                                                                           during the load reversal with the same magnitude of the strain\par
We set \u956?\u771?T = (b/a)\u956?T = \u956?r and assume that r is independent                 rate, we leave q\u771?0 unchanged, reverse the expression for q\u771? to\par
of temperature and strain rate. Then                                                              \par
                                                                                   q\u772?(\u964?\u771?Y ,\u961?\u771?) = \u961?\u771?[f\u732?P (\u8722?\u964?\u771?Y ,\u961?\u771?) \u8722? f\u732?P (\u964?\u771?Y ,\u961?\u771?)],    (3.14)\par
                                   1        \u8730?\par
             f\u732?P (\u964?\u771?Y ,\u961?\u771?) = exp \u8722? e\u8722?\u964?\u771?Y /(r \u961?\u771?) .    (3.4)                and integrate the system (3.7)\u8211?(3.10), with q\u771? being replaced by\par
                                   \u952?\par
                                                                           q\u772?, backwards in \u947? . If the next load reversal with the same shear\par
We define q\u771?0 = (a/b)q0 so that q/q0 = q\u771?/q\u771?0 . Equation (2.4)             rate should be made after reaching \u947?\u8727? , we switch again to q\u771? and\par
becomes                                                                    integrate the system (3.7)\u8211?(3.10), with the initial conditions\par
                                     \u8730? \par
                              1              \u961?\u771?                            satisfying the continuity requirement, forwards in \u947? . We can\par
          \u957?\u771?(\u952?,\u961?\u771?,q\u771?0 ) \u8801? ln     \u8722? ln ln          .      (3.5)             also change the magnitude of the strain rate q\u771?0 if necessary.\par
                              \u952?            q\u771?0\par
                                                                           Thus the numerical simulation with several load reversals and\par
The dimensionless steady-state quantities are                              different strain rates can be realized in this way.\par
                 \u961?\u771?ss (\u967?\u771? ) = e\u8722?1/\u967?\u771? , \u967?\u771?0 = \u967?0 /eD .              (3.6)       After finding the solution we can compute the average\par
                                                                           rescaled stress according to\par
Using q\u771? instead of q as the dimensionless measure of plastic\par
                                                                                                                                   c\u771?\par
strain rate means that we are effectively rescaling t0 by a                                                           1\par
                                                                                                       \u964?\u772? /\u956? =                          \u964?\u771? d x\u771?.                     (3.15)\par
factor b/a. For purposes of this analysis, we assume that                                                             c\u771?       0\par
(a/b)t0 = 10\u8722?12 s.\par
                                                                           The average flow stress is computed similarly. The total\par
   In terms of the introduced dimensionless quantities the\par
                                                                           number of dislocations per unit height is\par
governing equations read\par
                                                                                                          c\par
                                                                                                                                   b            c\u771?\par
              \u8706? \u964?\u771?Y          q\u771?(\u964?\u771?Y ,\u961?\u771?)                                                       N=               \u961? dx =                               \u961?\u771? d x\u771?.        (3.16)\par
                    = 1\u8722?                   ,                    (3.7)                                   0                          a2       0\par
              \u8706?\u947?                 q\u771?0\par
                                                                         The number of excess dislocations per unit height equals\par
               \u8706? \u961?\u771?             \u964?\u771?Y q\u771?                \u961?\u771?\par
                    = K\u961?                        1\u8722?            , (3.8)                          c/2                             c/2\par
               \u8706?\u947?         \u957?\u771?(\u952?,\u961?\u771?,q\u771?0 )2 q\u771?0       \u961?\u771?ss (\u967?\u771?)                                                      2                                         2\par
                                                                              Ng = 2               \u961?g dx =                            \u946?,x dx =              \u946?m ,   (3.17)\par
               \u8706? \u967?\u771?     \u964?\u771?Y q\u771?            \u967?\u771?                                               0                      b        0                                b\par
                    =K            1\u8722?          ,                 (3.9)\par
               \u8706?\u947?         q\u771?0            \u967?\u771?0                               where \u946?m = \u946?(c\u771?/2). Then, obviously, Nr = N \u8722? Ng .\par
\u947? \u8722? \u946? \u8722? \u964?\u771?B \u8722? \u964?\u771?Y = 0,                                            (3.10)\par
                                                                                           IV. NUMERICAL SIMULATIONS\par
where\par
              k1 \u958? 2 + (2k0 k1 \u8722? 1)\u958? + k1 k02 \u8722? 2k0                           Let the antiplane shear test be done at room temperature\par
    \u964?\u771?B = \u8722?                                         \u946?,x\u771? x\u771?       (3.11)   T = 298 K and at the strain rate q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?13 . The parameters\par
                          4\u960? (k0 + \u958? )2                                    for copper at this room temperature are chosen as follows [1]:\par
and \u958? = |\u946?,x\u771? |. To solve this system of partial differential equa-\par
tions subject to initial and boundary conditions numerically,              r = 0.0323, \u952? = 0.0073, K = 350, K\u961? = 96.1, \u967?\u771?0 = 0.25.\par
we discretize the equations in the interval (0 < x\u771? < c\u771?) by               We take c = 5.1 micron, b = 2.55 A\u778?, and a = 10b. In addition,\par
dividing it into n subintervals of equal length x\u771? = c\u771?/n. Then            the parameters k0 and k1 required to compute the back stress\par
the first and second spatial derivatives of \u946? in Eq. (3.10) are            [9] are k0 = 10\u8722?6 and k1 = 2.1\u215?106 . We choose also the initial\par
approximated by                                                            conditions\par
                  \u8706?\u946?             \u946?i+1 \u8722? \u946?i\par
                        (x\u771?i ) =           ,                      (3.12)    \u964?\u771?Y (0) = 0, \u961?\u771?(0) = 6.25\u215?10\u8722?5 , \u967?\u771? (0) = 0.18, \u946?(0) = 0.\par
                  \u8706? x\u771?                x\u771?\par
                 \u8706? 2\u946?            \u946?i+1 \u8722? 2\u946?i + \u946?i\u8722?1                         This initial dislocation density in real dimension equals\par
                        (x\u771?i ) =                   ,              (3.13)   1013 m2 .\par
                 \u8706? x\u771? 2                 ( x\u771?)2                                The results of numerical simulations are presented in\par
where \u946?i = \u946?(x\u771?i ). In this way, we reduce the four partial                Figs. 2\u8211?10. In Fig. 2 the average normalized shear stress\par
differential equations to a system of 4n ordinary differential-            versus shear strain curve (called for short stress-strain curve)\par
algebraic equations. We have solved these numerically using                with the strains at the beginning of load reversals \u947? \u8727? = 0.08\par
the Matlab-ode15s solver with n = 1000 and the \u947? step equal                and \u947?\u8727? = \u8722?0.00414 is shown. We plot there also the average\par
to 10\u8722?6 .                                                                  rescaled flow stress \u964?\u772?Y /\u956? versus \u947? (dashed black curve) for\par
   After shearing the specimen up to the shear strain \u947? \u8727? we               comparison. The loading path OAB (black curve) consists of\par
unload the crystal and load it further in the opposite direction           the elastic line OA and the hardening curve AB. The yielding\par
by reversing the direction of change of \u947? . The latter will now be         transition occurs at A. Figure 3 shows the plastic distortion\par
\par
                                                                     043002-3\par
K. C. LE AND T. M. TRAN                                                                              PHYSICAL REVIEW E 97, 043002 (2018)\par
\par
\par
 \u8722?\par
 \u964?/\u956?                                                                          Ng 8\par
     -3                                                                       7 10\par
8 10\par
                                                                              6                                                        C      B\par
6                                                                     B\par
                                                                              5\par
4\par
                                                                              4\par
2\par
                                                                              3\par
             A\par
0           O                                                   C             2\par
\par
-2                                                                            1\par
\par
-4                                                                            0 D\par
        D                                                                         O\par
                                                                        \u947?     -1                                                               \u947?\par
-6                                                                           -0.01   0     0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08\par
 -0.01       0     0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08\par
\par
    FIG. 2. Stress-strain curves at the strain rate q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?13 , for room       FIG. 4. Ng versus \u947? at the strain rate q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?13 , for room\par
temperature, and for \u947? \u8727? = 0.08: (i) loading path OAB (black), (ii) load     temperature, and for \u947? \u8727? = 0.08: (i) loading path (black), (ii) load\par
reversal BCD [red (dark gray)], (iii) second load reversal DO [yellow        reversal [red (dark gray)], and (iii) second load reversal [yellow\par
(light gray)], and (iv) flow stress versus strain (dashed black curve).      (light gray)].\par
\par
\par
\u946? at three different \u947? along the hardening curve AB that                     of the specimen) are frozen as seen in Figs. 4\u8211?6. The yielding\par
agrees well with the approximate analytical solution found                   transition occurs at C, where the magnitude of the stress is\par
in [9]. The excess dislocations pile up against the left and                 much lower than that at the end of the loading path exhibiting\par
right boundaries, leaving the center of the specimen free of                 the Bauschinger effect. To explain this effect we plot in Fig. 8\par
excess dislocations. As \u947? increases the number of excess and                 the evolution of the normalized back stress \u964?\u771?B (near the\par
redundant dislocations as well as the effective temperature also             boundary) as \u947? changes. This back stress increases during the\par
increase as shown in Figs. 4\u8211?6.                                              loading due to the increasing number of excess dislocations,\par
    During the load reversal BCD [red (dark gray)] we observe                and then remains unchanged during the unloading when the\par
first the elastic unloading BC where the redundant and excess                dislocations are frozen along the line BC. The presence of\par
dislocations as well as the effective temperature (in the middle             this positive back stress reduces the magnitude of shear stress\par
                                                                             required for pulling the excess dislocations back to the center\par
                                                                             of the specimen. There, the excess dislocations of opposite\par
     \u946?                                                                       signs meet and annihilate each other, so the number of excess\par
0.06                                                                         dislocations reduces gradually to zero along the curve CD as\par
                                 \u947? = 0.06                                    shown in Fig. 4. Figure 7 shows the evolution of the plastic\par
                                                                             distortion at three different \u947? that confirms this tendency. It\par
0.05                                                                         is interesting that the number of redundant dislocations do not\par
                                                                             decrease at all, except that they are also frozen along the elastic\par
0.04                             \u947? = 0.04                                    line BC as shown in Fig. 5.\par
                                                                                 If we reverse the loading direction again by increasing\par
                                                                             \u947? from \u947?\u8727? to zero, (\u947? ,\u964?\u771? ) moves along the elastic line DO\par
0.03                                                                         [yellow (light gray)], where the dislocations and the effective\par
                                                                             temperature are frozen (see Fig. 1). Note that the effective\par
0.02                             \u947? = 0.02                                    temperature always increases during the loading along AB and\par
                                                                             loading in the opposite direction along CD as seen in Fig. 6,\par
                                                                             in agreement with the second law of thermodynamics.\par
0.01                                                                             It is remarkable that the loading path in the opposite\par
                                                                             direction CD differs essentially from the loading path AB due\par
    0                                                                   ~    to the increase of the total number of dislocations along CD.\par
        0    0.2   0.4   0.6   0.8   1      1.2   1.4   1.6   1.8    24 x    Thus along CD the material is closer to the steady state than\par
                                                                    10\par
                                                                             along AB and, consequently, the slope of CD must be less\par
    FIG. 3. Evolution of \u946?(x\u771?) at the strain rate q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?13 and            than that of AB. This asymmetry between loadings in opposite\par
for room temperature during the loading along AB: (i) \u947? = 0.02               directions becomes more pronounced as \u947? \u8727? increases.\par
(black), (ii) \u947? = 0.04 [red (dark gray)], and (iii) \u947? = 0.06 [yellow             It is interesting to examine the influence of the size of\par
(light gray)].                                                               the sample on the Bauschinger effect. Figure 9 shows two\par
\par
                                                                       043002-4\par
THERMODYNAMIC DISLOCATION THEORY: BAUSCHINGER \u8230?                                                           PHYSICAL REVIEW E 97, 043002 (2018)\par
\par
\par
Nr 9                                                                             \u946?\par
6 10                                                                       0.07\par
                                                                                                               \u947? = 0.006\par
 5                                                                         0.06\par
       D\par
\par
                                                                           0.05\par
 4                                                                                                             \u947? = 0.004\par
                                                                           0.04\par
 3\par
                                                                           0.03\par
                                                                                                                \u947? = 0.02\par
 2                                                             C\par
                                                                     B     0.02\par
\par
 1                                                                         0.01\par
\par
           O                                                          \u947?      0                                                                         ~\par
 0                                                                                  0       0.2   0.4   0.6   0.8   1      1.2   1.4   1.6   1.8    24 x\par
-0.01      0       0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08                                                                                         10\par
    FIG. 5. Nr versus \u947? at the strain rate q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?13 , for room              FIG. 7. Evolution of \u946?(x\u771?) at the strain rate q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?13 and for\par
temperature, and for \u947? \u8727? = 0.08: (i) loading path (black), (ii) load       room temperature during the load reversal along CD: (i) \u947? = 0.02\par
reversal [red (dark gray)], and (iii) second load reversal [yellow         (black), (ii) \u947? = 0.04 [red (dark gray)], and (iii) \u947? = 0.06 [yellow\par
(light gray)].                                                             (light gray)].\par
\par
stress-strain curves for two samples with different widths\par
c = 5.1 micron (dashed line) and c = 51 micron (bold line)                 rates q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?13 (dashed line), q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?11 (bold line), and\par
and with all other parameters being left unchanged. We see                 q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?8 (dashed and dotted line). The width of samples\par
that the size strongly influences the slope of the hardening               is c = 5.1 micron, while all other parameters remain un-\par
curve because the dislocation pileup for the smaller sample                changed. We see that the strain rate mainly affects the isotropic\par
leads to stronger kinematic hardening than for the larger sample           hardening, but much less the Bauschinger effect. Even for\par
(smaller is stronger). This affects the stress level at which the          q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?8 (corresponding to the fast strain rate q0 = 104 /s\par
yielding transition occurs during load reversal. For the smaller           which is typical of Hopkinson bar testing) the Bauschinger\par
sample, this stress is even positive.                                      effect remains nearly the same as for the much slower loading.\par
   Another important question is how much the strain rate                  The reason is that the kinematic hardening due to the excess\par
affects the Bauschinger effect. Figure 10 shows three stress-              dislocations is much less sensitive to the change in strain rate.\par
strain curves for three samples loaded at three different strain           Also note that it is practically difficult to stop the load and\par
\par
\par
     ~\par
     \u967?                                                                         ~\par
                                                                               \u964?B\par
                                                                           0.08\par
                                                                                                                                              C      B\par
         D                                                                 0.07\par
0.21\par
                                                                           0.06\par
\par
                                                                           0.05\par
 0.2                                                                       0.04\par
\par
                                                                           0.03\par
                                                               C\par
                                                                     B\par
                                                                           0.02\par
0.19\par
                                                                           0.01\par
\par
                                                                                0       D\par
                                                                                             O\par
0.18\par
               O                                                      \u947?    -0.01                                                                      \u947?\par
  -0.01        0    0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08                   -0.01          0     0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08\par
\par
    FIG. 6. \u967?\u771? (c\u771?/2) versus \u947? at the strain rate q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?13 , for room        FIG. 8. Normalized back stress \u964?\u771?B near the boundary versus \u947? at\par
temperature, and for \u947? \u8727? = 0.08: (i) loading path (black), (ii) load       the strain rate q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?13 , for room temperature, and for \u947? \u8727? = 0.08:\par
reversal [red (dark gray)], and (iii) second load reversal [yellow         (i) loading path (black), (ii) load reversal [red (dark gray)], and\par
(light gray)].                                                             (iii) second load reversal [yellow (light gray)].\par
\par
                                                                     043002-5\par
K. C. LE AND T. M. TRAN                                                                            PHYSICAL REVIEW E 97, 043002 (2018)\par
\par
\par
\u8722?\par
\u964?/\u956?                                                                       \u8722?\u964?/\u956?\par
     -3\par
 8 10                                                                          -3\par
                                                                           8 10\par
\par
 6                                                                         6\par
\par
 4                                                                         4\par
\par
 2                                                                         2\par
\par
 0                                                                         0\par
\par
-2                                                                        -2\par
\par
-4                                                                        -4\par
\par
-6                                                                   \u947?    -6                                                                    \u947?\par
-0.01     0    0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08                    -0.01 0        0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08\par
    FIG. 9. Stress-strain curves for specimens with different sizes at        FIG. 10. Stress-strain curves for the specimen loaded at different\par
the strain rate q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?13 , for room temperature, and for \u947? \u8727? = 0.08:   strain rates, for room temperature, and for \u947? \u8727? = 0.08: (i) q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?13\par
(i) c = 5.1 micron (dashed) and (ii) c = 51 micro (bold).                 (dashed), (ii) q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?11 (bold), and (iii) q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?8 (dashed and\par
                                                                          dotted).\par
instantly realize the load reversal at the same rate of strain,\par
especially for the fast loading. Therefore, the real stress-strain        stress from the first principle calculation of the free energy of\par
curve usually deviates from the theoretical one in a small                dislocated crystals and thus to predict the stress-strain curves\par
transient period. Perhaps this is one of the reasons for the              and the Bauschinger effect.\par
differences between unloading and immediate reloading.                        As the comparison with the experiments is concerned, the\par
                                                                          experimental data in antiplane shear-controlled deformations\par
                 V. CONCLUDING REMARKS                                    are not known to us, in contrast to the tension-compression tests\par
                                                                          provided in [14,15] or plane strain shear tests in [16,17], so the\par
    The physical explanation of the Bauschinger effect on the             justification of the theory by the experiments is not possible\par
basis of the back stress and the excess dislocations seems to             at the present time. However, the proposed theory may serve\par
us to be quite reasonable. In constructing the STZ theory for             as a useful guide for the future experimental investigation on\par
glasses [13] Langer has argued that \u8220?The Bauschinger effect               the Bauschinger effect in several directions: (i) the asymmetry\par
is one example where the system remembers the direction                   between loadings in opposite directions at different levels of\par
in which it has been deformed, and responds differently\u8212?                  \u947? \u8727? , (ii) the influence of the size effect, (iii) the sensitivity\par
more compliantly or less so\u8212?to further loading in different               of the back stress on the strain rate and temperature, etc.\par
directions. The natural way to include such effects in the theory         Last, but not least, let us mention that the thermodynamic\par
is to let the STZ\u8217?s possess internal degrees of freedom that              dislocation theory for uniform plastic deformations [1] yields\par
carry information from one event to the next.\u8221? This argument              in the proportional compression tests for copper an excellent\par
holds true for dislocation mediated plasticity as well. Here, in          agreement with the experiments conducted in [18] over a wide\par
our opinion, the incompatible plastic distortion is the natural           range of temperatures and strain rates. This gives us the hope\par
variable that keeps the memory of excess dislocations. It cannot          that the same will happen for the theory proposed in this paper.\par
enter the free energy, but the curl of this quantity should enter\par
the free energy causing the back stress. In this way the theory\par
                                                                                               ACKNOWLEDGMENTS\par
differs substantially from the phenomenological plasticity that\par
introduces the back stress along with an assumed constitutive                T.M.T. acknowledges support from the Vietnamese Gov-\par
equation to fit the stress strain curves exhibiting the kinematic         ernment Scholarship Program 911. K.C.L. is grateful to J. S.\par
hardening. In contrary, our theory allows us to find the back             Langer for helpful discussions.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 [1] J. S. Langer, E. Bouchbinder, and T. Lookman, Acta Mater. 58,         [5] J. S. Langer, Phys. Rev. E 95, 033004 (2017).\par
     3718 (2010).                                                          [6] K. C. Le, T. M. Tran, and J. S. Langer, Phys. Rev. E 96, 013004\par
 [2] J. S. Langer, Phys. Rev. E 92, 032125 (2015).                             (2017).\par
 [3] J. S. Langer, Phys. Rev. E 94, 063004 (2016).                         [7] K. C. Le, T. M. Tran, and J. S. Langer, Scr. Mater. 149, 62 (2018).\par
 [4] J. S. Langer, Phys. Rev. E 95, 013004 (2017).                         [8] K. C. Le, J. Mech. Phys. Solids 111, 157 (2018).\par
\par
\par
                                                                    043002-6\par
THERMODYNAMIC DISLOCATION THEORY: BAUSCHINGER \u8230?                                               PHYSICAL REVIEW E 97, 043002 (2018)\par
\par
 [9]   K. C. Le and Y. Piao, arXiv:1801.05304.                       [15] P. S. Bate and D. W. Wilson, Acta Metall. 34, 1097 (1986).\par
[10]   J. F. Nye, Acta Metall. 1, 153 (1953).                        [16] M. Lewandowska, Mater. Chem. Phys. 81, 555 (2003).\par
[11]   E. Kr\u246?ner, GAMM-Mitteilungen 15, 104 (1992).                  [17] G. Vincze, E. F. Rauch, J. J. Gracio, F. Barlat, and A. B. Lopes,\par
[12]   V. L. Berdichevsky, Int. J. Eng. Sci. 116, 74 (2017).              Acta Mater. 53, 1005 (2005).\par
[13]   J. S. Langer, Phys. Rev. E 77, 021502 (2008).                 [18] P. S. Follansbee and U. F. Kocks, Acta Metall. 36, 81\par
[14]   A. Abel and H. Muir, Philos. Mag. 26, 489 (1972).                  (1988).\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                                                               043002-7\par

}