{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
\f0\fs22
Continuum Mech. Thermodyn. (2022) 34:763\u8211?780\par
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00161-022-01088-6\par
\par
 O R I G I NA L A RT I C L E\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Yinguang Piao \u183? Khanh Chau Le\par
\par
Thermodynamic theory of dislocation/grain boundary\par
interaction\par
\par
\par
\par
Received: 10 November 2021 / Accepted: 28 January 2022 / Published online: 25 February 2022\par
\u169? The Author(s) 2022\par
\par
\par
Abstract The thermodynamic theory of dislocation/grain boundary interaction, including dislocation pileup\par
against, absorption by, and transfer through the grain boundary, is developed for non-uniform plastic deforma-\par
tions in polycrystals. The case study is carried out on the boundary conditions affecting work hardening of a\par
bicrystal subjected to plane constrained shear for three types of grain boundaries: (i) impermeable hard grain\par
boundary, (ii) grain boundary that allows dislocation transfer without absorption, and (iii) grain boundary that\par
absorbs dislocations and allows them to pass later.\par
\par
Keywords Thermodynamics \u183? Dislocations \u183? Grain boundary \u183? Polycrystals \u183? Work hardening\par
\par
\par
1 Introduction\par
\par
The interaction between dislocations and grain boundaries plays an essential role in the mechanical response\par
of polycrystalline materials to loading. Several outcomes of this interaction are possible. At low dislocation\par
density, the grain boundary blocks the movement of dislocations and forces them to pileup against it, with the by-\par
product of linearly increased kinematic work hardening. As the dislocation density exceeds some critical value,\par
a certain amount of dislocations is absorbed by the grain boundary, causing an increase in the surface dislocation\par
density and the misorientation between adjacent grains. Dislocations can also be emitted at a later stage of\par
straining in the neighboring grain or transferred through the grain boundary. In the presence of grain boundaries,\par
non-uniform plastic deformation occurs, leading to non-redundant (geometrically necessary) dislocations, so\par
the need for continuum models that include the gradient of plastic deformation becomes evident. Berdichevsky\par
and Sedov [1] were the first to introduce the curl of plastic deformation (Nye\u8211?Bilby\u8211?Kr\u246?ner\u8217?s tensor) into the\par
continuum dislocation theory (CDT) and associate it with the density of non-redundant dislocations. They\par
also proposed the thermodynamics of dislocations, using this density of non-redundant dislocations as a state\par
variable in the free energy and giving the variational formulation of CDT (see the further developments in\par
[2,3]). The main drawback of this thermodynamic approach is the absence of configurational entropy and\par
its dual quantity, the effective temperature of dislocations, introduced a few decades later by Langer et al.\par
[4]. Together with the density of redundant dislocations, this configurational entropy enables ones to build\par
up the meaningful thermodynamics of dislocations satisfying two universal laws for plastic flows discovered\par
in [5,6]. Recently, one of us extended CDT by introducing the density of redundant dislocations as well\par
as the configurational entropy as additional state variables [7]. He has shown that the new theory, called\par
thermodynamic dislocation theory (TDT), can predict both kinematic and isotropic work hardening. This TDT\par
has been applied to model grain boundaries as hard obstacles that block dislocations, leading to dislocation\par
Communicated by Andreas \u214?chsner.\par
Y. Piao \u183? K. C. Le (B)\par
Lehrstuhl f\u252?r Mechanik - Materialtheorie, Ruhr-Universit\u228?t Bochum, D-44780 Bochum, Germany\par
E-mail: chau.le@rub.de\par
764                                                                                                  Y. Piao, K. C. Le\par
\par
\par
pileup, kinematic work hardening, and Bauschinger effect [8,9]. Piao and Le [10] further applied the theory to\par
the problem of interaction between screw dislocations and permeable grain boundary based on the experiments\par
performed by Kondo et al. [11]. There, an interfacial dissipation potential is proposed and additional boundary\par
conditions for the grain boundary are derived to model screw dislocation/grain boundary interaction.\par
     Alternative phenomenological models that include the interaction between dislocations and grain bound-\par
aries have been proposed in the context of strain gradient plasticity by Fleck et al. [12]; Aifantis [13]; Gao et al.\par
[14]; Gurtin [15], and a large number of investigations have been carried out within this approach. Fredriksson\par
and Gudmundson [16] proposed an energetic model according to which the plastic work is stored as interfacial\par
energy that depends on the jump of plastic slip at the grain boundary, while Fleck and Willis [17] argued that\par
material hardening due to the grain boundary is mainly carried by energy dissipation. Note that both models\par
allow for a discontinuity in the plastic slip at the grain boundary. Gurtin [18] introduced a Burgers\u8217? tensor\par
at the grain boundary, analogous to the Nye\u8211?Bilby\u8211?Kr\u246?ner\u8217?s tensor for bulk crystals, to determine both the\par
interfacial energy and dissipation. One merit of this tensorial measure is that it allows the theory to satisfy the\par
slip transfer criteria. Van Beers et al. [19] proposed a similar theory that takes into account the criteria of slip\par
transfer, but differs from the formulation of Gurtin [18]. Inter-grain interaction modules from two theories are\par
compared by Gottschalk et al. [20]; Bayerschen et al. [21]. Erdle and B\u246?hlke [22] developed the continuum\par
model of dislocation/grain boundary interaction based on the micromorphic strain gradient plasticity. We also\par
mention the references [23\u8211?29] which use the same strain gradient plasticity. Similar to the CDT developed in\par
[1\u8211?3], this standard strain gradient plasticity ignores completely configurational entropy, so none of the work\par
done within this approach is consistent with thermodynamics of dislocations proposed in [4\u8211?6].\par
     The aim of this work is to model the interaction of edge dislocations with the grain boundary in polycrystals\par
within the framework of TDT. In contrast to the interaction between screw dislocations and grain boundaries\par
studied in our previous paper [10], the processes of dislocation pileup against, absorption by, and transfer\par
through the grain boundary may occur in this situation. Using the variational formulation together with the\par
proposed surface energy and dissipation potential, we will derive the interface boundary conditions for these\par
processes. The case study is carried out on the boundary conditions affecting work hardening of a bicrystal\par
subjected to plane constrained shear for three types of grain boundaries: (i) impermeable hard grain boundary,\par
(ii) grain boundary that allows dislocation transfer without absorption, and (iii) grain boundary that absorbs\par
dislocations and allows them to pass later. Note that, according to various experimental observations reported,\par
e.g., in [30,31], the grain boundary could be migrated during this dislocation absorption, but this possible\par
migration is ignored in this continuum model. We show especially the effect of dislocation absorption on work\par
hardening.\par
     The paper is organized as follows. After this brief introduction, we lay down the kinematics and thermody-\par
namic framework of TDT in Sect. 2. In Sect. 3, we analyze the effects of dissipation potential and interfacial\par
energy on the work hardening of materials and derive the conditions at the grain boundary for various processes\par
during plastic deformation. In Sect. 4, the application of the developed theory to the problem of a bicrystal\par
subjected to plane constrained shear is illustrated and its numerical treatment is presented. Detailed numerical\par
simulations are then performed and the results are discussed. We conclude the paper with a brief summary in\par
Sect. 5.\par
\par
\par
2 Formulation for bulk crystals\par
\par
2.1 Kinematics\par
\par
In the small strain theory, we ignore the differences between the Lagrangian and Eulerian coordinates and\par
assume that the total displacement gradient (distortion) u\u8711? can be decomposed additively into elastic and\par
plastic counterparts\par
\par
                                                 u\u8711? = \u946? e + \u946?,                                                    (1)\par
\par
where u(x) is a displacement field, x = (x1 , x2 , x3 ) a position vector of a material point of the body, and \u8711? the\par
nabla operator. The incompatible plastic distortion of the crystal having n active slip systems takes the form\par
\par
                                                   \par
                                                   n\par
                                          \u946?(x) =         \u946? \u945? (x)s\u945? \u8855? m\u945? ,                                         (2)\par
                                                   \u945?=1\par
Thermodynamic theory                                                                                              765\par
\par
\par
with s\u945? and m\u945? being the pair of unit vectors denoting the slip direction and the normal to the slip planes of the\par
corresponding \u945?-th slip system. The plastic slip of the \u945?-th slip system, \u946? \u945? (x), is assumed to be continuously\par
differentiable function except at the interfaces or grain boundaries. Since s\u945? and m\u945? are mutually orthogonal, the\par
trace of the plastic distortion always vanishes, tr\u946? = 0, which indicates volume-preserving plastic deformation\par
due to the conservative motion of dislocations. The total strain \u949? and the plastic strain \u949?p are the symmetric\par
part of the displacement gradient and the plastic distortion, respectively, so that\par
                                           1                 1\par
                                     \u949?=      (\u8711?u + u\u8711?), \u949? p = (\u946? + \u946? T ).                                         (3)\par
                                           2                 2\par
Accordingly, the elastic strain equals\par
                                                      \u949?e = \u949? \u8722? \u949?p .                                               (4)\par
The net Burger\u8217?s vector B of non-redundant dislocations whose lines cross the area S bounded by the closed\par
curve \u8706? S is given by\par
                                                       \par
                                     B=       \u946? \u183? dx =    \u945? \u183? nda,                                     (5)\par
                                                  \u8706?S              S\par
where \u945? is the Nye\u8211?Bilby\u8211?Kr\u246?ner\u8217?s dislocation tensor [32\u8211?34],\par
                                        \u945? = \u8722?\u946? \u215? \u8711?, (\u945?i j =  jkl \u946?il,k ).                                        (6)\par
In particular, if there is only one active slip system such that s and m lie in the (x1 , x2 )-plane, while the\par
dislocation lines are parallel to the x3 -axis, then \u945? under the plane strain has only two nonzero components\par
\u945?i3 = si (\u8706?s \u946?), where \u8706?s denotes the derivative in the s-direction. Consequently, the scalar density of the\par
non-redundant dislocations is given by\par
                                                       |dB|  1\par
                                               \u961?g =         = |\u8706?s \u946?|,                                             (7)\par
                                                       bda   b\par
with b being the magnitude of Burger\u8217?s vector.\par
\par
\par
2.2 Thermodynamic framework\par
\par
Suppose the material body in form of a slab of constant depth L occupies the 3-D domain V , and its boundary \u8706? V\par
consists of two non-intersecting surfaces, \u8706?k and \u8706?s , on which the displacement field u(x) and the traction-free\par
condition are specified, respectively. Assuming that no body force acts on the crystals, the energy functional\par
reads\par
                                              \par
                                         I =     \u968?(\u949?e , \u961? g , \u961? r , \u967? )d3 x,                                  (8)\par
                                                  V\par
\par
where  d3 x  = dx1 dx2 dx3 denotes the volume element and \u968? is the density of the Helmholtz free energy. The\par
dislocation network is assumed to be two-dimensional, such that the dislocation lines are parallel to the x3 -axis\par
and the Burgers\u8217? vector of edge dislocations lies in the (x1 , x2 )-plane. We let \u961? r denote the density of redundant\par
dislocations whose resultant Burgers\u8217? vector vanishes, and \u961? g the density of non-redundant dislocations (see\par
subsection 2.1 ). The sum of the two types of dislocation densities is the total dislocation density \u961? = \u961? r +\u961? g . In\par
the spirit of the dislocation mediated plasticity [4], which decomposes the thermodynamic system of dislocated\par
crystal into two subsystems and traces it back to statistical aspects of the defects, \u967? is the effective temperature\par
characterizing the slow rearrangement of configuration of atoms during the motion of dislocations, while the\par
ordinary temperature T characterizes the fast vibration of atoms of the kinetic vibrational subsystem. In some\par
cases, such as thermal softening [35\u8211?37] or adiabatic shear banding [38], the ordinary temperature plays an\par
important role. However, in the present study we set T to be constant and drop it from the list of arguments of\par
the free energy density \u968?. The state variables \u949? e and \u961? g are dependent variables expressed by u and \u946?, while\par
\u961? r and \u967? are independent state variables. We decompose \u968? into the part due to the elastic strain, \u968?e , and the\par
remaining parts\par
                         \u968?(\u949?e , \u961? g , \u961? r , \u967? ) = \u968?e (\u949? e ) + \u968?r (\u961? r ) + \u968?m (\u961? g ) + \u968?c (\u967? , \u961?),                 (9)\par
766                                                                                                Y. Piao, K. C. Le\par
\par
\par
where \u968?r is the self-energy density of redundant dislocations, \u968?m is the energy density of the non-redundant\par
dislocations, while \u968?c is the configurational heat associated with the configurational entropy [7,35]. The\par
additive decomposition of the energy of dislocations into two parts \u968?r and \u968?m is possible because the interaction\par
between dislocation dipole and dislocation has a much shorter range compared to the interaction between\par
dislocations of the same sign. These contributions are given below\par
\par
                                            1\par
                               \u968?e (\u949?e ) =     \u955?(\u949?e )2 + \u956?\u949?e \u949?e , \u968?r (\u961? r ) = \u947?D \u961? r ,\par
                                            2 kk \u9115? i j i j \u9118?\par
                                                             1\par
                               \u968?m (\u961? g ) = \u947?D \u961?ss ln \u9117?                 \u9120?,                                      (10)\par
                                                  g\par
                                                                 \u961?g\par
                                                         1\u8722?       g\par
                                                                 \u961?ss\par
                               \u968?c (\u967? , \u961?) = \u8722?\u967?\u772?(\u8722?\u961? ln(a 2 \u961?) + \u961?),\par
\par
where \u955? and \u956? are Lame\u769? constants, and \u947?D the dislocation energy per unit length. Since \u8722?\u961? ln(a 2 \u961?) + \u961? is\par
the entropy per unit area of the two-dimensional dislocation network (see the detailed derivation in [39]), the\par
\u8220?two-dimensional\u8221? temperature \u967?\u772? = \u967? /L is introduced to get the configurational heat having the unit of energy\par
density [7]. Note that a is a length scale of the order of atomic spacing. The defect energy \u968?m describing the\par
interactions of non-redundant dislocations captures the kinematic hardening. The logarithmic term, originated\par
from [40], ensures that the defect energy increases linearly for small dislocation density and tends to infinity\par
                                                                              g                      g\par
as \u961? g approaches the saturated density of non-redundant dislocations \u961?ss . We assume that \u961?ss = k0 \u961?ss is a\par
fraction of \u961?ss by coefficient k0 , where \u961?ss = (1/a 2 )e\u8722?\u947?D /\u967?\u772? is the steady-state dislocation density determined\par
by minimizing the free energy of the configurational subsystem [4]. Note that k0 is characterized by the\par
interaction between dislocations of the same sign, which is similar to the interaction between charges [41]. We\par
                                                g\par
will see in the subsequent section the role of \u961?ss in the contribution of interfacial energy to the work hardening.\par
    The applied loading can lead to nucleation, propagation and movement of dislocations, which result in\par
plastic deformations in the crystal. In these processes, dislocations always experience resistance, which causes\par
energy dissipation. The dissipation potential in the bulk has the form\par
\par
                                                              1         1\par
                                    Db (\u946?\u775?, \u961?\u775?, \u967?\u775? ) = \u964?i \u946?\u775? + d\u961? \u961?\u775? 2 + d\u967? \u967?\u775? 2 .                             (11)\par
                                                              2         2\par
The first term is the plastic power, where \u964?i is the internal stress, while the last two terms represent the\par
dissipation due to the multiplication of dislocations and the increase of the configurational temperature [7].\par
Langer et al. [4] developed the kinetics of dislocation depinning that dominantly controls the plastic slip rate.\par
Averaging this kinetic equation over the representative volume element, we have established in [42] that\par
\par
                               q(T, \u964?i , \u961? r )   b\u8730?\par
                         \u946?\u772?\u729? =                 =    \u961? f P (T, \u964?i , \u961? r ) \u8722? f P (T, \u8722?\u964?i , \u961? r )                 (12)\par
                                   t0            t0\par
\par
where t0 is a microscopic time scale of the order of the inverse Debye frequency, and\par
                                                                             \par
                                                        TP            \u964?i\par
                               f P (T, \u964?i , \u961? ) = exp \u8722? exp \u8722?\par
                                             r\par
                                                                               .                               (13)\par
                                                        T          \u964?T (\u961? r )\par
                                                                                                       \u8730?\par
Note that TP is the activation temperature of the potential well of a pinning site and \u964?T (\u961? r ) = \u956?T b \u961? r is the\par
Taylor stress with \u956?T being proportional to the shear modulus \u956?. It was shown that this kinetic equation for \u946?\u772?\u729?\par
can correctly describe the rate-reducing behavior of isotropic work hardening both when the crystal is loaded\par
on one direction and in the load reversal process [10]. Provided there is only one slip system inclined at an\par
angle \u966? to the x1 -axis, then, using similar arguments as in [8], we lay down one governing equation for \u964?\u775?i\par
\par
                                                 q0                q(T, \u964?i , \u961? r )\par
                                       \u964?\u775?i = \u956?        cos 2\u966? \u8722?                                                 (14)\par
                                                 t0                    q0\par
\par
where q0 /t0 denotes the total shear strain rate. This equation plays the role of the kinematic constraint for the\par
internal stress \u964?i . The remaining equations in the bulk can be derived from the following variational principle:\par
Thermodynamic theory                                                                                               767\par
\par
\par
The true displacement field u\u780?(x), the true plastic slips \u946?\u780?(x), the true density of redundant dislocations \u961?\u780? r (x),\par
and the true configurational temperature \u967?\u780? (x) obey the variational equation\par
                                      \par
                                                  \u8706? Db       \u8706? Db       \u8706? Db\par
                               \u948?I +                     \u948?\u946? +       \u948?\u961? +       \u948?\u967? d3 x = 0                         (15)\par
                                          V        \u8706? \u946?\u775?       \u8706? \u961?\u775?       \u8706? \u967?\u775?\par
\par
for all variations of admissible fields u(x), \u946?(x), \u961? r (x) and \u967? (x). Focusing on the contribution of the grain\par
boundary to work hardening, we assume that the whole external boundary \u8706? V admit dislocation to reach it. In\par
this case, the plastic slip can be varied arbitrarily at \u8706? V . The variational equation (15) allows one to derive the\par
remaining governing equations. From the variation of I with respect to the displacement field u(x), we obtain\par
the quasi-static equilibrium equation and the boundary condition [43]\par
\par
                                                       \u963?i j, j = 0 in V ,\par
                                                                                                                  (16)\par
                                                       \u963?i j n j = 0 on \u8706?s ,\par
\par
with \u963? = \u8706?\u968?e /\u8706?\u949? e being the Cauchy stress tensor and n the outward unit normal vector to the external boundary.\par
In Eq. (15), the vanishing variation with respect to the plastic slip \u946?(x) yields the balance of microforces acting\par
on dislocations [7] and the natural boundary condition at the entire external boundary as\par
\par
                                                    \u964? \u8722? \u964?b \u8722? \u964?i = 0 in V ,\par
                                                    \u8706?\u968?m                                                           (17)\par
                                                          = \u947?D on \u8706? V ,\par
                                                     \u8706?\u961? g\par
\par
where \u964? = si \u963?i j m j is the resolved shear stress acting on the slip system, while the back stress is\par
\par
                                              1     \u8706?\u968?m                      1 \u8706? 2 \u968?m\par
                                \u964?b = \u8722?                   sign\u946?,s        =\u8722?               \u946?,ss .                   (18)\par
                                              b     \u8706?\u961? g           ,s        b2 \u8706?(\u961? g )2\par
\par
Note that (.),s = si \u8706?i (.) is the shorthand notation for \u8706?s (.). Following the suggestions by Le [7] for functions\par
of d\u961? and d\u967? , the remaining equations obtained from Eq. (15) for \u967?\u775? and \u961?\u775? can be cast into the form\par
\par
                                        q(T, \u964?i , \u961? r )         \u967?\par
                             \u967?\u775? = K\u967? eD \u964?i                1\u8722?            ,\par
                                             t0                \u967?0\par
                                                                                                                  (19)\par
                                          \u964?i            q(T, \u964?i , \u961? r )         \u961?\par
                             \u961?\u775? = K\u961? 2                                    1\u8722?          .\par
                                    a \u957?(T, \u961? r , q0 )2      t0               \u961?ss (\u967? )\par
\par
Here, \u967?0 is a constant denoting the steady-state configurational temperature, while the steady-state dislocation\par
density at a given effective temperature is \u961?ss (\u967? ) = (1/a 2 )e\u8722?\u947?D /\u967?\u772? . K\u967? is a factor inversely proportional to the\par
effective specific heat and K\u961? is a energy conversion coefficient [44]. The function \u957?(T, \u961? r , q0 ) is defined as\par
                                                                                  \u8730?   \par
                                                             TP                  b \u961?r\par
                                 \u957?(T, \u961? r , q0 ) = ln              \u8722? ln ln              .                         (20)\par
                                                             T                    q0\par
\par
\par
3 Interface boundary conditions\par
\par
As a prototype, we study a simple problem of plane deformation of a bicrystal whose single grain boundary,\par
which is a plane perpendicular to the y-axis, lies at y = yg (see Fig. 1). The extension to the case of polycrystals\par
with multiple grain boundaries can be done without complications. Since the tensorial index notation is no\par
longer required, the coordinates (x1 , x2 , x3 ) are changed to (x, y, z) for simplicity. For the sake of definiteness,\par
we assume that only edge dislocations move to and interact with the grain boundary. If the plastic slip \u946? depends\par
only on y due to the sample geometry and specific boundary conditions, then the non-redundant dislocation\par
density is proportional to \u946?,y , \u961? g = |\u946?,y |/b, where  depends on the slip system, as will be discussed in\par
Sect. 4.\par
768                                                                                                  Y. Piao, K. C. Le\par
\par
\par
3.1 Interfacial energy and dissipation\par
\par
Dislocations are long-lived and well-defined defects and have various interactions with the grain boundary,\par
e.g., dislocation pileup, absorption, and transmission. Within the continuum approach, it should be possible\par
to mimic these interactions by the interfacial energy and dissipation that reflect the underlying physics at the\par
nano-/submicron scale. The low-angle grain boundary itself can be regarded as an array of dislocations [45]\par
whose interfacial energy depends on the surface dislocation density [46,47]. It also acts as an additional barrier\par
to the movement of dislocations and can later absorb or release them. Therefore, in addition to bulk dissipation,\par
interfacial dissipation must also be taken into account. In order to choose the appropriate argument for the\par
interfacial energy, the state variables of the surface must first be recognized. Although the plastic distortion and\par
the corresponding plastic slip are not the state variables in the bulk, the jump in the plastic slip representing the\par
surface dislocation density is the state variable at the grain boundary (cf. with the Burgers tensor introduced\par
in [18]). We propose the densities of interfacial energy and dissipation potential as follows\par
                                                  \par
                                            \u968?s (\u946?  y \u177?0 ) = \u968?s (|[[\u946?]]\u915? |),                                     (21)\par
                                                       g\par
\par
\par
and\par
                                                            |\u946?\u775?\u915? | 1 ([[\u946?\u775?]]\u915? )2\par
                                    Ds (\u946?\u775?  y   \u177?0\par
                                                    ) = \u950?y             + \u950?a           .                          (22)\par
                                             g                   b      2     b2\par
Here, the vertical line followed by yg \u177? 0 indicates the limits of the preceding expression as y approaches the\par
grain boundary position yg from above and below, while .\u915? and [[.]]\u915? denote the mean value and the jump\par
of a variable at the interface \u915? , respectively. Thus, according to these definitions\par
                                    1                                               \par
                        \u946?\u775?\u915? =     (\u946?\u775? y +0 + \u946?\u775?  y \u8722?0 ), [[\u946?\u775?]]\u915? = (\u946?\u775?  y +0 \u8722? \u946?\u775?  y \u8722?0 ).                (23)\par
                                    2      g           g                       g           g\par
\par
\par
Eq. (21) requires that only the surface dislocation density |[[\u946?]]\u915? |/b, regarded as the state variable, can be\par
the argument of \u968?s . The first term on the right-hand side of Eq. (22) is the dissipation by the rate of the\par
mean plastic slip at the interface, where \u950?y plays a role of the yield surface tension. The second term in (22),\par
quadratic in [[\u946?\u775?]]\u915? , describes rate-dependent dissipation due to the acoustic emission of waves generated during\par
the absorption of dislocations by the grain boundary.\par
    The boundary conditions involving interfacial energy and dissipation can be derived from the following\par
variational equation\par
                                                       \par
                                                              \u8706? Db       \u8706? Db       \u8706? Db\par
                        \u948? I+        \u968?s (|[[\u946?]]\u915? |)da +              \u948?\u946? +       \u948?\u961? +       \u948?\u967? d3 x\par
                                 \u915?                        V    \u8706? \u946?\u775?       \u8706? \u961?\u775?       \u8706? \u967?\u775?\par
                            \par
                                    \u8706? Ds               \u8706? Ds\par
                          +                \u948?[[\u946?]]\u915? +          \u948?\u946?\u915? da = 0,                                 (24)\par
                              \u915?   \u8706?[[\u946?\u775?]]\u915?           \u8706?\u946?\u775?\u915?\par
which extends Eq. (15) to the case involving the grain boundary, where da denotes the area element, while I\par
and Db remain exactly the same as in (8) and (11), respectively. Edge dislocations may either penetrate the\par
grain boundary or be absorbed by it through dissociation of the dislocations. The latter process requires the\par
continuity of displacement field but causes a jump in plastic slip [[\u946?]]\u915? at the interface. This is revealed by the\par
volume integral containing the variation of the non-redundant dislocation density \u948?\u961? g during the integration\par
by parts, permitting the discontinuity to enter into the interface as\par
                                                            \par
                      \u8706?\u968?m      \u8706?\u968?\u967?      \u8706? Db                      \u8706?\u968?m\par
                            +         +        \u948?\u961? g 3\par
                                                   d  x = \u8722?                \u8722? \u947?D      sign\u946?,y \u948?\u946?d3 x\par
                  V    \u8706?\u961? g    \u8706?\u961?  g    \u8706? \u961?\u775? g\par
                                                               V b    \u8706?\u961? g        ,y\par
                                                           \par
                          \u8706?\u968?m                                    \u8706?\u968?m\par
                  +                  \u8722? \u947?D sign\u946?,y \u948?\u946?da \u8722? [[                \u8722? \u947?D sign\u946?,y \u948?\u946?]]\u915? da.              (25)\par
                      \u8706?s b    \u8706?\u961? g                           \u915? b      \u8706?\u961? g\par
\par
The governing equation with respect to \u961? r from Eq. (15), given as [7,48]\par
\par
                                           \u947?D + \u967? ln(a 2 \u961?)/L + d\u961? \u961?\u775? = 0,                                       (26)\par
Thermodynamic theory                                                                                             769\par
\par
\par
is utilized for \u947?D in the derivation of Eq. (25). Expanding the interface integral term on the right-hand side of\par
Eq. (25) by means of the jump identity [49]\par
\par
                                        [[ p q]]\u915? = [[ p]]\u915? q\u915? + [[q]]\u915?  p\u915?                             (27)\par
\par
and substituting it into Eq. (24), we transform the latter to\par
               \par
                         \u8706?\u968?m                                    \u8706?\u968?m\par
                    \u8722?           \u8722? \u947?D sign\u946?,y \u915? \u948?[[\u946?]]\u915? \u8722? [[            \u8722? \u947?D sign\u946?,y ]]\u915? \u948?\u946?\u915?\par
               \u915?        b \u8706?\u961?   g                                b \u8706?\u961? g\par
                                                                                  \par
                     \u8706?\u968?s                1                        1\par
                +          \u948?[[\u946?]]\u915? + \u950?y sign\u946?\u775?\u915? \u948?\u946?\u915? + \u950?a 2 [[\u946?\u775?]]\u915? \u948?[[\u946?]]\u915? da = 0.                      (28)\par
                   \u8706?[[\u946?]]\u915?              b                        b\par
To derive consequences from (28), we need to analyze the variations of plastic slip on both sides of the\par
grain boundary, which may be subject to constraints depending on the accumulated dislocation densities. We\par
therefore consider two different processes.\par
     Pileup process: When dislocations move toward the grain boundary under the Peach\u8211?Koehler force, they\par
first pile up against it. Since the dislocations cannot initially penetrate the grain boundary acting as an obstacle,\par
the plastic slips on both sides of the grain boundary\par
                                                        are subject to homogeneous Dirichlet boundary condition\par
which fulfills Eq. (28) due to \u948?\u946?  y \u8722?0 = \u948?\u946?  y +0 = 0. So we have during the pileup process\par
                                    g              g\par
\par
\par
                                                   \u946?\u775?(yg \u177? 0, t) = 0.                                           (29)\par
\par
The time derivative in Eq. (29) ensures the continuity of plastic slip at the interface with respect to time in the\par
reversal loading [10].\par
    Absorption and transmission processes: As more dislocations of the same sign pile up against the\par
interface, the back stress near the pileup sites is increased. When the accumulated non-redundant dislocation\par
density and with it the back stress in the vicinity of the grain boundary exceeds a threshold, the latter can no\par
longer block dislocations. When the grain boundary starts to absorb dislocations, the jump in plastic slip as\par
well as the misorientation between two adjacent grains will increase. The plastic slip at the grain boundary\par
as well as its jump [[\u946?]]\u915? may change during the process of dislocation absorption, and consequently, \u948?\u946?\u915?\par
and \u948?[[\u946?]]\u915? can be chosen independently and arbitrarily. Eq. (28) then implies\par
                                 \u8706?\u968?m                             \u8706?\u968?m        \par
                                                                            \par
                                     \u8722? \u947? D        +                 \u8722? \u947? D        = \u950?y ,                     (30)\par
                                 \u8706?\u961? g         yg +0               \u8706?\u961? g         yg \u8722?0\par
\par
and\par
                                                b2           \u8706?\u968?m           \u8706?\u968?s\par
                                   [[\u946?\u775?]]\u915? =           [[           ]]\u915? \u8722?             ,                         (31)\par
                                                \u950?a          2b \u8706?\u961? g       \u8706?[[\u946?]]\u915?\par
\par
provided sign\u946?,y | yg \u177?0 = \u177?1, sign\u946?\u775?\u915? = 1 and sign[[\u946?\u775?]]\u915? = 1.\par
    For simplicity, let us assume the symmetry such that l = u = . Let \u961?y be the root of the equation\par
\u8706?\u968?m /\u8706?\u961? g = \u950?y /2 + \u947?D which exists and is unique due to the monotonicity of function \u8706?\u968?m /\u8706?\u961? g . It turns\par
out that this dislocation density plays the role of the first threshold. If the dislocation density on the one side\par
of the grain boundary exceeds this threshold value, Eq. (30) can only be satisfied if\par
                                   \par
                                     \u961? g | yg +0 = |\u946?,y |/b| yg +0 = \u961?y + \u961?j ,\par
                                                                                                               (32)\par
                                     \u961? g | yg \u8722?0 = |\u946?,y |/b| yg \u8722?0 = \u961?y \u8722? \u961?j .\par
\par
Indeed, taking into account that \u961?j is much less than \u961?y , we can expand function \u8706?\u968?m /\u8706?\u961? g into the Taylor\par
series near \u961?y and neglect terms of order higher than \u961?j . Then it is easy to see that (32) satisfies Eq. (30).\par
    But there is another threshold that does not permit dislocations to reach the grain boundary even if the\par
dislocation density on the one side exceeds \u961?y . The reason lies in the second term on the right-hand side of\par
(31). Since \u968?s is a function of |[[\u946?]]\u915? |, its derivative is equal to\par
                                              \u8706?\u968?s        \u8706?\u968?s\par
                                                    =            sign[[\u946?]]\u915? .                                   (33)\par
                                            \u8706?[[\u946?]]\u915?   \u8706?|[[\u946?]]\u915? |\par
770                                                                                                 Y. Piao, K. C. Le\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 1 Plane constrained shear of bicrystal\par
\par
\par
Because the largest absolute value of this derivative is achieved at [[\u946?]]\u915? = \u977?0 , with \u977?0 being the initial\par
misalignment, as long as the first term in the bracket on the right-hand side is less than this value, [[\u946?]]\u915? cannot\par
increase. To simplify (31), we take into account Eq. (32) and the smallness of \u961?j . Expanding \u8706?\u968?m /\u8706?\u961? g into\par
the Taylor series near \u961?y , we transform (31) to\par
                                           b2     \u8706? 2 \u968?m               \u8706?\u968?s\par
                               [[\u946?\u775?]]\u915? =                   (\u961?y )\u961?j \u8722?            sign[[\u946?]]\u915?   .                  (34)\par
                                           \u950?a    b \u8706?(\u961? )\par
                                                       g 2           \u8706?|[[\u946?]]\u915? |\par
   For the density of interfacial energy, we will consider the modified Read\u8211?Shockley\u8217?s interfacial energy\par
[46],\par
                                                           \u947?D           e\u977?m\par
                                                \u968?s =              \u977? ln      ,                                   (35)\par
                                                       4\u960?(1 \u8722? \u957?)b      \u977? +\u948?\par
where \u977? = |[[\u946?]]\u915? |. A small number \u948? is added to the denominator of the logarithm to make the derivative of\par
\u968?s finite at \u977? = 0. Finally, we need an equation for \u961?y which is similar to Eq. (14) for \u964?i . As such, we propose\par
                                                   \u961?y = \u961?y0 + \u954?a |[[\u946?]]\u915? |.                                     (36)\par
\par
\par
4 Application\par
\par
4.1 Plane constrained shear\par
\par
Suppose that a bicrystal slab is subjected to plane constrained shear by a given displacement u y (t) = \u947?\u775? t y\par
specified at the upper and lower surfaces (see Fig. 1) and that the system is driven at a constant shear rate\par
\u947?\u775? = q0 /t0 . Let the green colored plane \u915? be the plane of the grain boundary that is parallel to the (x, y)-plane\par
and is located at y = yg . This grain boundary divides the bicrystal occupying V into two perfectly bonded single\par
crystals occupying V \u8722? and V + , i.e., V = V \u8722? \u8746? V + \u8746? \u915? . Let the cross section of this bicrystal perpendicular to\par
the z-axis be a rectangle of width c and height h, having the same shape and size over the entire length L. We\par
assume h  c  L to neglect the end effect near x = 0 and x = c. Edge dislocations can occur during the\par
plastic deformation, and we assume that only one slip system is activated in each single crystal, colored blue\par
and red, respectively. The slip directions are perpendicular to the z-axis and inclined at angles \u966?u and \u966?l to the\par
plane of the grain boundary. Given the geometry of the specimen as well as boundary conditions, we assume\par
that the displacements (u x , u y ) as well as the plastic slip \u946? depends only on y: u x = u x (y), u y = u y (y),\par
\u946? = \u946?(y). The displacement u z vanishes.\par
    When the plastic deformation occurs, the edge dislocations move on the active slip system with the slip\par
direction s = (cos \u966?, sin \u966?, 0)T and the normal to the slip plane m = (\u8722? sin \u966?, cos \u966?, 0)T . The plastic distortion\par
tensor is given by\par
                                                \u9115?                            \u9118?\par
                                                  \u8722? sin \u966? cos \u966? cos2 \u966? 0\par
                                   \u946? = \u946?(y, t) \u9117? \u8722? sin2 \u966? sin \u966? cos \u966? 0\u9120? .                                     (37)\par
                                                        0            0     0\par
Thermodynamic theory                                                                                                 771\par
\par
\par
The plastic and elastic strain tensor becomes\par
                                                   \u9115?                  \u9118?\par
                                          1         \u8722? sin 2\u966? cos 2\u966? 0\par
                                     \u949? p = \u946?(y, t) \u9117? cos 2\u966? sin 2\u966? 0\u9120? ,                                              (38)\par
                                          2             0       0 0\par
                                            \u9115?                                        \u9118?\par
                                          1      \u946? sin 2\u966?     u x,y \u8722? \u946? cos 2\u966?     0\par
                                     \u949? e = \u9117?u x,y \u8722? \u946? cos 2\u966? 2u y,y \u8722? \u946? sin 2\u966?     0\u9120? ,                              (39)\par
                                          2          0                0            0\par
where the displacement field u = (u x , u y , 0) is yet unknown. The nonzero components of Nye\u8211?Bilby\u8211?Kr\u246?ner\u8217?s\par
tensor are \u945?x z = \u946?,y sin \u966? cos \u966? and \u945? yz = \u946?,y sin2 \u966?. Therefore, the density of the non-redundant dislocation\par
per unit area perpendicular to the z-axis equals\par
                                    1\par
                                    \u961?g =\par
                                      |\u945? \u183? e z | = |\u946?,y |/b, where  = | sin \u966?|.                                    (40)\par
                                    b\par
The total energy functional of a crystal becomes\par
                                h\par
                       I = cL      [\u968?e (\u949? e ) + \u947?D \u961? r + \u968?m (\u961? g ) + \u968?c ]dy + cL\u968?s | y=yg ,                          (41)\par
                                         0\par
where \u968?e is the energy density due to the elastic strain\par
                                                                                                      2\par
                   1 2   1                     1                        1\par
            \u968?e =    \u955?u + \u956?(u x,y \u8722? \u946? cos 2\u966?)2 + \u956?\u946? 2 sin2 2\u966? + \u956? u y,y \u8722? \u946? sin 2\u966?                         .          (42)\par
                   2 y,y 2                     4                        2\par
Note that the angle \u966?(y) is piecewise constant:\par
                                             \par
                                                        \u966?l for 0 < y < yg ,\par
                                              \u966?(y) =                                                                 (43)\par
                                                        \u966?u for yg < y < h.\par
\par
Taking the variation of functional I with respect to u x and u y at fixed \u946?(y), we obtain the equilibrium equations\par
which, after integration, lead to\par
                                               u x,y = \u947? + (\u946? \u8722? \u946?) cos 2\u966?,\par
                                                                                                                     (44)\par
                                               u y,y = \u954?(\u946? \u8722? \u946?) sin 2\u966?,\par
            \u956?                       h\par
with \u954? =   \u955?+2\u956?   and \u946? =     1\par
                                h    0   \u946?dy. Inserting Eq. (44) into Eq. (41), we reduce the energy functional to\par
                        h1                     1                        1\par
            I = cL          \u956?\u954?\u946?2 sin2 2\u966? + \u956?(\u946? cos 2\u966? \u8722? \u947? )2 + \u956?(1 \u8722? \u954?)\u946? 2 sin2 2\u966? + \u947?D \u961? r\par
                     0    2                     2                        2\par
                                                                             \par
                                 1                                              \par
              +\u947?D k0 \u961?ss ln                \u8722? \u967? (\u8722?\u961? ln(a 2\par
                                                          \u961?) + \u961?)/L   dy + cL\u968? s      .                             (45)\par
                              1 \u8722? k0\u961?\u961?ss\par
                                     g\par
                                                                                  y=yg\par
\par
Varying this functional with respect to \u946? and substituting into (24), we obtain the equilibrium equation\par
                                                       \u964? \u8722? \u964?b \u8722? \u964?i = 0,                                              (46)\par
with the resolved and back shear stresses being\par
                    \u964? = \u8722?\u956?(\u954?\u946? sin2 2\u966? + (\u946? cos 2\u966? \u8722? \u947? ) cos 2\u966? + (1 \u8722? \u954?)\u946? sin2 2\u966?),                              (47)\par
and\par
                                  C1                         \u947?D                     1\par
                  \u964?b = \u8722?                      \u946?,yy , C1 =           sin2 \u966?, C2 =          | sin \u966?|.                  (48)\par
                             (1 \u8722? C2 |\u946?,y |)2             k0 \u961?ss b2              k0 \u961?ss b\par
At the top and bottom surfaces of the sample, the boundary conditions \u8706?\u968?m /\u8706?\u961? g = \u947?D must be fulfilled. It is\par
obvious that these imply the Neumann conditions \u946?,y (0, t) = \u946?,y (h, t) = 0. Besides, at y = yg , the boundary\par
conditions (31) (or (34), alternatively), (32), and (36) must be fulfilled.\par
772                                                                                                          Y. Piao, K. C. Le\par
\par
\par
4.2 Rescaled boundary value problem\par
\par
To facilitate numerical integration, we introduce the following rescaled variables and quantities\par
                               y\par
                          y\u771? =   , \u961?\u771? = a 2 \u961?, \u961?\u771? r = a 2 \u961? r , \u961?\u771? g = b2 \u961? g = |\u946?, y\u771? |,\par
                               b\par
                                \u967?\u772?         T          \u964?             \u964?i         \u964?b                                        (49)\par
                          \u967?\u771? =     , \u952?=       , \u964?\u771? = , \u964?\u771?i = , \u964?\u771?b = ,\par
                               \u947?D          TP         \u956?             \u956?           \u956?\par
\par
where the variable y\u771? changes from zero to h\u771? = h/b. The plastic slip rate is rewritten in the form\par
                                            q(T, \u964?i , \u961? r )   b q\u771?(\u952?, \u964?\u771?i , \u961?\u771? r )\par
                                                            =                      .                                     (50)\par
                                                t0            a      t0\par
in which\par
                                                    \par
                             q\u771?(\u952?, \u964?\u771?i , \u961?\u771? r ) =    \u961?\u771? r ( f\u732?P (\u952?, \u964?\u771?i , \u961?\u771? r ) \u8722? f\u732?P (\u952?, \u8722?\u964?\u771?i , \u961?\u771? r )).               (51)\par
We set \u956?\u771?T = (b/a)\u956?T = \u956?r and assume that r is independent of temperature and strain rate. Then\par
                                                                   \par
                                                       1        \u964?\u771?\par
                             f\u732?P (\u952?, \u964?\u771?i , \u961?\u771? ) = exp \u8722? exp \u8722? \par
                                                                  i\par
                                             r\par
                                                                        .                                                (52)\par
                                                       \u952?      r \u961?\u771? r\par
\par
We define q\u771?0 = (a/b)q0 such that q/q0 = q\u771?/q\u771?0 , and function \u957?\u771? becomes\par
                                                                \par
                                                     1                 \u961?\u771? r\par
                               \u957?\u771?(\u952?, \u961?\u771? , q\u771?0 ) = ln\par
                                       r\par
                                                        \u8722? ln ln             .                                            (53)\par
                                                     \u952?               q\u771?0\par
\par
The dimensionless steady-state quantities are\par
                                                                    1                    \u967?0\par
                                        \u961?\u771?ss (\u967?\u771? ) = exp \u8722?                 , \u967?\u771?0 =          .                            (54)\par
                                                                    \u967?\u771?                   eD\par
Using q\u771? instead of q as the dimensionless measure of plastic strain rate means that we are effectively rescaling\par
t0 by a factor b/a. We assume that (a/b)t0 = 10\u8722?12 s. Since the shear rate \u947?\u775? = q0 /t0 is constant, we can\par
replace the time derivative by the derivative with respect to \u947? so that t0 \u8706?/\u8706?t \u8594? q0 \u8706?/\u8706?\u947? . Using the introduced\par
dimensionless variables, the governing equations in the bulk, Eqs. (14), (19) and (46), are transformed to the\par
following system of partial differential equations\par
                                  \u964?\u771? \u8722? \u964?\u771?b \u8722? \u964?\u771?i = 0,\par
                                   \u8706? \u964?\u771?i                q\u771?(\u952?, \u964?\u771?i , \u961?\u771? r )\par
                                         = cos 2\u966? \u8722?                        ,\par
                                   \u8706?\u947?                           q\u771?0\par
                                   \u8706? \u967?\u771?           q\u771?(\u952?, \u964?\u771?i , \u961?\u771? r )           \u967?\u771?                                        (55)\par
                                         = K\u967? \u964?\u771?i                       1\u8722?          ,\par
                                   \u8706?\u947?                   q\u771?0                   \u967?\u771?0\par
                                   \u8706? \u961?\u771?              q\u771?(\u952?, \u964?\u771?i , \u961?\u771? r )               \u961?\u771?\par
                                         = K\u961? \u964?\u771?i                            1\u8722?              ,\par
                                   \u8706?\u947?             \u957?\u771?(\u952?, \u961?\u771? r , q\u771?0 )2 q\u771?0         \u961?\u771?ss (\u967?\u771? )\par
with the rescaled resolved shear stress and back stress being\par
\par
                    \u964?\u771? = \u8722?(\u954?\u946? sin2 2\u966? + (\u946? cos 2\u966? \u8722? \u947? ) cos 2\u966? + (1 \u8722? \u954?)\u946? sin2 2\u966?),\par
                                  k1                                                                                     (56)\par
                    \u964?\u771?b = \u8722?                    \u946?, y\u771? y\u771? ,\par
                            (1 \u8722? k2 |\u946?, y\u771? |)2\par
where\par
                                    \u947?D                                      a2\par
                            k1 =        k sin 2\par
                                                \u966?, k 2 = k| sin \u966?|, k =            .                                     (57)\par
                                    \u956?b2                                 k0 \u961?\u771?ss b2\par
Thermodynamic theory                                                                                              773\par
\par
\par
    During the absorption and transmission process, the density of non-redundant dislocation \u961? g near the grain\par
                                               g\par
boundary hardly reaches the saturated density \u961?ss . Therefore, using the Taylor expansion, we can approximate\par
the defect energy \u968?m as follows\par
                                                                            \par
                                                       g   \u961?g      1 \u961?g 2\par
                             \u968?m = \u947?D \u968?\u771?m , \u968?\u771?m = \u961?ss        g +         g      .                           (58)\par
                                                           \u961?ss     2 \u961?ss\par
\par
By this approximation, the equilibrium equation for microforces (55)1 , a stiff second-order quasi-linear dif-\par
ferential equation, can be transformed into an elliptic differential equation\par
                                                  A\u946? + B\u946? + C = 0,                                               (59)\par
which is numerically more stable than the first one when the jump condition is implemented. The prime denotes\par
the derivative of a function with respect to y\u771?, and\par
                                   \u947?D a 2 1\par
                                A=                sin2 \u966?, B = (1 \u8722? \u954?) sin2 2\u966?,\par
                                   \u956?b2 b2 k0 \u961?\u771?ss                                                                (60)\par
                             C = \u8722?(\u954?\u946? sin2 2\u966? + (\u946? cos 2\u966? \u8722? \u947? ) cos 2\u966? + \u964?\u771?i ),\par
   At the external boundaries, Eq. (55)1 is subjected to the boundary condition\par
\par
                                          \u946?, y\u771? (0, f\u732?) = 0, \u946?, y\u771? (h\u771?, f\u732?) = 0.                                 (61)\par
From (31), we get the rescaled interface condition at the grain boundary as\par
                                                                                    \par
                       \u8706?[[\u946?]]\u915?      1  \u8706? \u968?\u771?m           sign[[\u946?]]\u915?          \u977?m\par
                                =        [[     ]]\u915? \u8722?              log                 ,\par
                         \u8706?\u947?        \u950?\u771?a 2 \u8706? \u961?\u771? g        4\u960?(1 \u8722? \u957?0 )     |[[\u946?]]\u915? | + \u948?\par
                                                                                                                 (62)\par
                                      2\par
                         [[\u946?, y\u771? ]]\u915? = \u961?\u771?y .\par
                                      \par
where \u950?\u771?a = \u950?a t0 /(q0 b \u947? D ) and \u961?\u771?y = b2 \u961?y . The dimensionless form of Eq. (36) reads\par
                                                 \u961?\u771?y = \u961?\u771?y0 + \u954?\u771?a |[[\u946?]]\u915? |,                                     (63)\par
\par
where \u954?\u771?a = b2 \u954?a .\par
    We also need to pose the initial conditions for \u946?, \u964?\u771?i , \u961?\u771? and \u967?\u771? . For the internal shear stress, we assume that\par
the specimen is not plastically pre-deformed, i.e., \u964?\u771?i ( y\u771?, 0) = 0. As for the plastic slip, two scenarios can be\par
studied: (i) vanishing initial misalignment and (ii) nonzero initial misalignment. The numerical simulations\par
will be performed for the first case where \u946?( y\u771?, 0) = 0. The rescaled dislocation density \u961?\u771?( y\u771?, 0) and the rescaled\par
disorder temperature \u967?\u771? ( y\u771?, 0) are assigned reasonable initial values based on various numerical simulations. It\par
should be noted that, from the physical point of view, these initial values depend on the sample preparation.\par
\par
\par
4.3 Numerical implementation\par
\par
We discretize the boundary value problem formulated above by a finite difference method called the line\par
method. The latter replaces the spatial derivatives by finite differences, which allow us to transform partial\par
differential equations into a system of ordinary differential equations with respect to \u947? . We illustrate this\par
method for the case y\u771?g = h\u771?/2. For the case y\u771?g = h\u771?/2, the discretization can be done in a similar way. Let\par
the interval 0 < y\u771? < h\u771? be divided into 2n equal subintervals. Then the step in y\u771? along the grid becomes\par
\u916? y\u771? = h\u771?/2n. Because of the jump in \u946? at the interface, we distinguish the left and right nodes located at the\par
same point y\u771?g = n\u916? y\u771?. The coordinates of the nodes on the left interval 0 < y\u771? < h\u771?/2 are\par
                                               y\u771?i = i\u916? y\u771?, i = 0, . . . , n,                                    (64)\par
\par
while those on the right interval h\u771?/2 < y\u771? < h\u771? are\par
                                    y\u771?i = (i \u8722? 1)\u916? y\u771?, i = n + 1, . . . , 2n + 1.                                (65)\par
774                                                                                                       Y. Piao, K. C. Le\par
\par
\par
Thus, altogether we have 2(n + 1) nodes. The spatial derivatives of the plastic slip, \u946?, y\u771? and \u946?, y\u771? y\u771? , for all internal\par
nodes not lying at the external boundaries or the interface, are approximated as\par
                        \u8706?\u946?( y\u771?i , \u947? )   \u946?i+1 \u8722? \u946?i\u8722?1      \u8706? 2 \u946?( y\u771?i , \u947? )   \u946?i+1 \u8722? 2\u946?i + \u946?i\u8722?1\par
                                      =             ,                     =                   ,                       (66)\par
                           \u8706? y\u771?            2\u916? y\u771?              \u8706? y\u771? 2              \u916? y\u771? 2\par
where \u946?i = \u946?( y\u771?i , \u947? ). We decompose the integral \u946? in the resolved shear stress into two integrals that are\par
calculated using the trapezoidal rule. Thus,\par
                            1    1                  1    1                     1\par
                   \u946? =           \u946?0 + \u946?1 + \u183? \u183? \u183? + \u946?n + \u946?n+1 + \u946?n+2 + \u183? \u183? \u183? + \u946?2n+1 .                               (67)\par
                           2n    2                  2    2                     2\par
After these replacements, Eq. (55)1 becomes an ordinary differential equation in all internal nodes.\par
   The first derivatives at the external nodes are replaced by\par
                            \u8706?\u946?( y\u771?0 , \u947? )   \u946?1 \u8722? \u946?0      \u8706?\u946?( y\u771?2n+1 , \u947? )   \u946?2n+1 \u8722? \u946?2n\par
                                          =         ,                     =             .                             (68)\par
                               \u8706? y\u771?           \u916? y\u771?             \u8706? y\u771?             \u916? y\u771?\par
Thus, the boundary conditions (61) become\par
                                              \u946?0 = \u946?1 , \u946?2n+1 = \u946?2n .                                                 (69)\par
The first left and right derivatives at the interface are replaced by\par
                           \u8706?\u946?( y\u771?n , \u947? )   \u946?n \u8722? \u946?n\u8722?1       \u8706?\u946?( y\u771?n+1 , \u947? )   \u946?n+2 \u8722? \u946?n+1\par
                                         =           ,                     =             .                            (70)\par
                              \u8706? y\u771?            \u916? y\u771?               \u8706? y\u771?            \u916? y\u771?\par
while the jump in \u946? is\par
                                                 [[\u946?]]\u915? = \u946?n+1 \u8722? \u946?n .                                                 (71)\par
These transform Eqs. (62) into two differential algebraic equations.\par
   Since the three remaining equations of (55) do not contain derivatives, they are satisfied node by node.\par
Besides, as the unknown functions are continuous at the interface, we have\par
                                     \u964?\u771?in = \u964?\u771?in+1 , \u961?\u771?n = \u961?\u771?n+1 , \u967?\u771?n = \u967?\u771?n+1 .                                      (72)\par
It is easy to see that the system of partial differential equations and boundary conditions becomes a system\par
of 4(2n + 1) ordinary differential algebraic equations (DAE) for 4(2n + 1) unknowns, so the problem is well\par
posed. For the numerical discretization we choose n = 200, while for the integration of DAEs with respect to\par
the time-like variable \u947? a step size \u916?\u947? = 10\u8722?4 is chosen. The DAE system is then integrated by the MATLAB\par
integrator ode15s.\par
\par
\par
4.4 Numerical results\par
\par
In the numerical simulations, we keep the temperature and shear rate constant at T = 298 K and q\u771?0 = 10\u8722?13 .\par
The parameters for the thermodynamic dislocation theory for copper are chosen as presented in [4]:\par
                      r = 0.0323, \u952? = 0.0073, K\u967? = 350, K\u961? = 96.1, \u967?\u771?0 = 0.25.                                        (73)\par
We choose the following parameters for the copper bicrystal\par
                  h = 5.1 \u956?m, b = 0.255 nm, a = 10b, \u956? = 50 GPa, \u957?0 = 0.34, \u966? = 30\u9702? .                                 (74)\par
The active slip systems of two grains in the bicrystal are constrained to symmetry. The initial conditions for\par
dislocation density and configuration temperature are \u961?\u771?(0) = 6.25 \u215? 10\u8722?5 , \u967?\u771? (0) = 0.23 and we assume\par
\u947?D = \u956?b2 . The critical density is set as \u961?\u771?y0 = 1.3 \u215? 10\u8722?5 and the other two interfacial dissipation parameters\par
are given as \u950?\u771?a = 1.5 and \u954?\u771?a = 5\u215?10\u8722?4 . The parameters for the defect energy and interfacial energy are chosen\par
as follows: k0 = 0.2, \u977?m = 0.192, \u948? = 1 \u215? 10\u8722?7 . Unless some parameters are changed for the parameter\par
study, they are kept as default values.\par
Thermodynamic theory                                                                                                  775\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 2 (a) Distribution of plastic slips at \u947? = 8 \u8727? 10\u8722?3 for k0 = 0.1, k0 = 0.2, and k0 = 0.5. (b) Corresponding hardening\par
behaviors in the pileup process\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 3 (a) Plastic slips during the pileup process, (b) evolution of the misorientation at the grain boundary\par
\par
\par
                                                                         g\par
     The saturation density of the non-redundant dislocations \u961?ss as well as the defect energy \u968?m is characterized\par
by the factor k0 , so that its value affects the distribution of plastic slip and work hardening. Figure 2a shows the\par
distributions of plastic slip in the pileup process for three different values of k0 . When k0 is small, the plastic\par
slip decreases gradually near the grain boundary, while it decreases more steeply to zero for a higher value\par
of k0 . Since the slope of plastic slip is proportional to the accumulated dislocation density, these distributions\par
imply that a smaller k0 leads to a larger dislocation accumulation zone and a lower accumulated density of non-\par
                                                                                           g\par
redundant dislocations near the grain boundary. This is because a small k0 makes \u961?ss small, so a lower density\par
of non-redundant dislocations is required for the backstress to have an effect on the balance of microforces.\par
The hardening behavior in the pileup process is shown in Fig. 2b. It can be seen that the hardening rate is larger\par
for smaller k0 . The reason is that the wider dislocation accumulation zone and the slower gradient increase\par
of plastic slip resulting from the small k0 lead to a higher resolved shear stress and consequently a larger\par
hardening rate. A smaller value of k0 also leads to a longer length of the accumulation phase. This is because\par
the accumulated \u961? g is relatively low for small k0 , and therefore, it takes longer to reach the required critical\par
density \u961?y .\par
     At different shear strains \u947? , the distribution of plastic slip in the processes of dislocation pileup is shown\par
in Fig. 3a. The Neumann boundary conditions \u946?, y\u771? (0) = \u946?, y\u771? (h\u771?) = 0 cause the curve of plastic slip to remain\par
flat on two sides, while a groove is formed at the position of the grain boundary due to the Dirichlet interface\par
776                                                                                                  Y. Piao, K. C. Le\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 4 (a) Plastic slips for absorption process, (b) plastic slip omitting the jump\par
\par
\par
\par
condition. A dislocation pileup zone is located in the center and two dislocation-free zones are located at the\par
boundary layers. In this process, the homogeneous Dirichlet interface condition is applied, and the dislocations\par
cannot penetrate into the grain boundary. Therefore, the groove sinks with increasing strain, but the tip remains\par
attached to the bottom (Fig. 3a). Figure 3b shows the evolution of the misalignment at the grain boundary,\par
which is obtained from Eq. (31). When the non-redundant dislocation density \u961? g reaches the critical value \u961?y0\par
at \u947? = 0.011, the evolution equation is activated. The grain boundary starts absorbing dislocations and the\par
misorientation increases only when the strain exceeds the second threshold value at \u947? = 0.0151, up to which\par
the accumulation process continues. The dislocation absorption process stops at \u947? = 0.0403 when the slope\par
of the misorientation changes.\par
     The distribution of plastic slip during the dislocation absorption process is shown in Fig. 4a. In this process,\par
the grain boundary is no longer impenetrable but absorbs dislocations, increasing the misorientation and causing\par
non-redundant dislocations to accumulate. These are two factors that cause the distribution of plastic slip to\par
take a different form than in the pileup process, as shown in Fig. 4a. Here, it can be observed that the plastic\par
slip on two sides of the grain boundary converges not to a single point, but to two points apart, and the distance\par
between them increases, which means that the misorientation of the grain boundary increases. To see the effect\par
of the additionally accumulated non-redundant dislocations, we omit the jump from the plastic slip distribution\par
at \u947? = 0.02 and \u947? = 0.03 (solid lines) and compare it with that at the beginning of the absorption process\par
(dashed lines) in Fig. 4b. It can be seen that the tip leaves the bottom, and as the shear stress increases, the\par
discrepancy between the solid and dashed lines also increases, indicating that the groove does not stop sinking.\par
     In the pileup process, the rate of accumulated dislocation density is the highest among the different processes\par
because all dislocations are blocked by the grain boundary. When positive and negative dislocations enter the\par
grain boundary and increase the misorientation in the absorption process, the ability of the grain boundary to\par
block dislocations from transfer is enhanced, and no additional dislocations are accumulated after this process.\par
This behavior is shown in Fig. 5a. In the pileup process, the positive and negative non-redundant dislocation\par
densities are symmetrically distributed on both sides of the grain boundary, while in the absorption process, a\par
jump in the non-redundant density occurs near the grain boundary, as shown in Fig. 5b. Under the interfacial\par
condition Eq. (32), the same amount of dislocation density is shifted from one side to the other.\par
     In Fig. 6a, the stress\u8211?strain curve of the present model (red curve) is shown, where P1 and P2 indicate the\par
first and second thresholds and P3 the end of the absorption process. For comparison we plot also the stress\u8211?\par
strain curves obtained by two other models. The blue curve represents the hardening behavior of bicrystals\par
with impenetrable grain boundary, which blocks all non-redundant dislocations and therefore hardens the\par
most. The black curve describes the hardening behavior of bicrystals without absorption process. When \u961? g\par
reaches the critical density \u961?y0 , the pileup process ends at P1 and the traversal process follows. These two\par
curves represent the limits above and below which the hardening with absorption can vary due to different\par
interfacial dissipation. Figure 6b shows the partition of work hardening into isotropic and kinematic hardening.\par
Isotropic work hardening results from the internal stress required by the dislocations to overcome the resistance\par
due to pinning. Kinematic work hardening is caused by back stresses describing the interaction between non-\par
Thermodynamic theory                                                                                                          777\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 5 (a) Evolution of the mean density of the non-redundant dislocations, (b) evolution of the non-redundant dislocation density\par
at two sides of grain boundary\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 6 Rescaled stress\u8211?strain curves: (a) with impenetrable grain boundary (blue), with dislocation absorption process included\par
(red), without dislocation absorption process (black), (b) partition of work hardening\par
\par
\par
\par
redundant dislocations. In the non-uniform plastic deformation of small size crystals, kinematic work hardening\par
tends to contribute strongly, while in the present study the contribution is small because bicrystals have only\par
one grain boundary where non-redundant dislocations accumulate. It is worth mentioning that for crystals with\par
multiple grain boundaries, the kinematic work hardening rate is higher [10].\par
    Among the interfacial dissipation parameters, \u961?y0 determines the first threshold and \u950?\u771?a the second, so they\par
determine the onset of the dislocation absorption process. The size of the jump in the plastic slip and the\par
length of the absorption process are controlled by \u950?\u771?a , as shown in Fig. 7a. Note that the jump exhibits a linear\par
dependence on the shear strain. The kinematic strain hardening in the absorption process (Fig. 7b) is influenced\par
by the additional accumulated non-redundant dislocations originating from the increased misorientation, so\par
that \u954?\u771?a is the key controlling parameter.\par
    Finally, we show the distribution of plastic slip at \u947? = 0.01 with \u954?a = 2 \u215? 10\u8722?4 for \u966? = 30\u9702? , \u966? = 35\u9702?\par
and \u966? = 55\u9702? in Fig. 8a. It can be seen that for 0 < \u966? < 45\u9702? and 135\u9702? < \u966? < 180\u9702? the plastic slip is positively\par
distributed, while for 45\u9702? < \u966? < 135\u9702? it is the reverse. The dashed curve is symmetrical to the black curve\par
about the horizontal coordinate axis. We see that the blue and dashed curves coincide in the dislocation-free\par
zone. This is because the resolved shear stress \u964? and the residual stress \u964?i for \u966? = 35\u9702? are identical in magnitude\par
but opposite in sign to those for \u966? = 55\u9702? . The distributions of plastic slip are different near the grain boundary\par
because the accumulation of non-redundant dislocation density is inconsistent due to the different slip systems.\par
778                                                                                                                    Y. Piao, K. C. Le\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 7 (a) Influence of \u950?\u771?a to the evolution of jump in plastic slip, (b) influence of \u954?\u771?a to the hardening behavior\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Fig. 8 (a) Distribution of plastic slips in pileup process for \u966? = 30\u9702? , \u966? = 35\u9702? and \u966? = 55\u9702? , (b) corresponding hardening\par
behaviors\par
\par
\par
Figure 8b shows the strain hardening behavior for three different \u966?, where the asterisks indicate the beginning\par
and end of the absorption processes. It can be seen that the slip system affects not only the hardening rate but\par
also the length of the absorption process l\u947? , as indicated in the bar graph.\par
\par
\par
5 Conclusion\par
\par
In the framework of thermodynamic dislocation theory for non-uniform plastic deformation, we have developed\par
the interface conditions for various interactions of dislocations with the grain boundary, e.g., dislocation\par
accumulation, absorption, and transfer. Interfacial dissipation in terms of rates for the mean and jump of\par
plastic slip has been proposed. An evolution equation for grain boundary misorientation has been developed.\par
The proposed interface dissipation yields two thresholds for the dislocation absorption process. The dislocation\par
absorption leads to asymmetry in the distribution of plastic slip and non-redundant dislocation density on two\par
sides of the grain boundary. It turns out that due to the additional accumulated density of non-redundant\par
dislocations, kinematic work hardening also develops during the process of dislocation absorption. The extent\par
of misorientation and the length of the dislocation absorption process are determined not only by the interfacial\par
dissipation, but also by the slip system of the grains.\par
Funding Open Access funding enabled and organized by Projekt DEAL.\par
Thermodynamic theory                                                                                                            779\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use,\par
sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original\par
author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other\par
third party material in this article are included in the article\u8217?s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit\par
line to the material. If material is not included in the article\u8217?s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted\par
by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To\par
view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.\par
\par
\par
References\par
\par
 1. Berdichevsky, V.L., Sedov, L.I.: Dynamic theory of continuously distributed dislocations. Its relation to plasticity theory. J.\par
    Appl. Math. Mech. (PMM) 31, 989\u8211?1006 (1967)\par
 2. Berdichevsky, V.L.: Continuum theory of dislocations revisited. Contin. Mech. Therm. 18, 195\u8211?222 (2006a)\par
 3. Le, K.C., G\u252?nther, C.: Nonlinear continuum dislocation theory revisited. Int. J. Plasticity 53, 164\u8211?178 (2014)\par
 4. Langer, J.S., Bouchbinder, E., Lookman, T.: Thermodynamic theory of dislocation-mediated plasticity. Acta Mater. 53,\par
    3718\u8211?3732 (2010)\par
 5. Langer, J.S., Le, K.C.: Scaling confirmation of the thermodynamic dislocation theory. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 117,\par
    29431\u8211?29434 (2020)\par
 6. Le, K.C.: Two universal laws for plastic flows and the consistent thermodynamic dislocation theory. Mech. Res. Commun.\par
    109, 103597 (2020)\par
 7. Le, K.C.: Thermodynamic dislocation theory for non-uniform plastic deformations. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 111, 157\u8211?169\par
    (2018)\par
 8. G\u252?nther, F., Le, K.C.: Plane constrained shear of single crystals. Arch. Appl. Mech. 91, 2109\u8211?2126 (2021)\par
 9. Le, K.C., Tran, T.M.: Thermodynamic dislocation theory: Bauschinger effect. Phys. Rev. E 97, 043002 (2018)\par
10. Piao, Y., Le, K.C.: Dislocation impediment by the grain boundaries in polycrystals. Acta Mech. 232, 3193\u8211?3213 (2020)\par
11. Kondo, S., Mitsuma, T., Shibata, N., Ikuhara, Y.: Direct observation of individual dislocation interaction processes with grain\par
    boundaries. Sci. Adv. 2, 1501926 (2016)\par
12. Fleck, N.A., Muller, G.M., Ashby, M.F., Hutchinson, J.W.: A mathematical basis for strain-gradient plasticity theory - Part\par
    I: scalar plastic multiplier. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 57, 161\u8211?177 (1994)\par
13. Aifantis, K.E.: Strain gradient interpretation of size effects. Int. J. Fract. 95, 299\u8211?314 (1999)\par
14. Gao, H., Huang, Y., Nix, W.D., Hutchinson, J.W.: Mechanism-based strain gradient plasticity - I. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 47,\par
    1239\u8211?1263 (1999)\par
15. Gurtin, M.E.: On a framework for small-deformation viscoplasticity: free energy, microforces, strain gradients. Int. J. Plas-\par
    ticity 19, 47\u8211?90 (2003)\par
16. Fredriksson, P., Gudmundson, P.: Modelling of the interface between a thin film and a substrate within a strain gradient\par
    plasticity framework. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 55, 939\u8211?955 (2007)\par
17. Fleck, N.A., Willis, J.R.: Strain gradient plasticity: theory and experiment. Acta Metall. Mater. 42, 475\u8211?487 (2009)\par
18. Gurtin, M.E.: A theory of grain boundaries that accounts automatically for grain misorientation and grain-boundary orien-\par
    tation. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 56, 640\u8211?662 (2008)\par
19. Van Beers, P.R.M., McShane, G.J., Kouznetsova, V.G., Geers, M.G.D.: Grain boundary interface mechanics in strain gradient\par
    crystal plasticity. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 61, 2659\u8211?2679 (2013)\par
20. Gottschalk, D., McBride, A., Reddy, B.D., Javili, A., Wriggers, P., Hirschberger, C.B.: Computational and theoretical aspects\par
    of a grain-boundary model that accounts for grain misorientation and grain-boundary orientation. Comput. Mater. Sci. 111,\par
    443\u8211?459 (2016)\par
21. Bayerschen, E., McBride, A.T., Reddy, B.D., B\u246?hlke, T.: Review on slip transmission criteria in experiments and crystal\par
    plasticity models. J. Mater. Sci. 51, 2243\u8211?2258 (2016)\par
22. Erdle, H., B\u246?hlke, T.: A gradient crystal plasticity theory for large deformations with a discontinuous accumulated plastic\par
    slip. Comp. Mech. 60, 923\u8211?942 (2017)\par
23. Aifantis, K.E., Willis, J.R.: The role of interfaces in enhancing the yield strength of composites and polycrystals. J. Mech.\par
    Phys. Solids 53, 1047\u8211?1070 (2005)\par
24. Ekh, M., Bargmann, S., Grymer, M.: Influence of grain boundary conditions on modeling of size-dependence in polycrystals.\par
    Acta Mech. 218, 103\u8211?113 (2011)\par
25. Peng, X., Huang, G.: Modeling dislocation absorption by surfaces within the framework of strain gradient crystal plasticity.\par
    Int. J. Solids Struct. 72, 98\u8211?107 (2015)\par
26. Pouriayevali, H., Xu, B.X.: Decomposition of dislocation densities at grain boundary in a finite-deformation gradient crystal-\par
    plasticity framework. Int. J. Plasticity 96, 36\u8211?55 (2017)\par
27. Voyiadjis, G., Deliktas, B.: Formulation of strain gradient plasticity with interface energy in a consistent thermodynamic\par
    framework. Int. J. Plasticity 25, 1997\u8211?2024 (2009)\par
28. Voyiadjis, G., Faghihi, D., Zhang, Y.: A theory for grain boundaries with strain-gradient plasticity. Int. J. Solids Struct. 51,\par
    1872\u8211?1889 (2014)\par
29. Wulfinghoff, S., Bayerschen, E., B\u246?hlke, T.: A gradient plasticity grain boundary yield theory. Int. J. Plasticity 51, 33\u8211?46\par
    (2013)\par
30. Molodov, D.A., Gorkaya, T., Gottstein, G.: Dynamics of grain boundaries under applied mechanical stress. J. Mater. Sci. 46,\par
    4318\u8211?4326 (2011)\par
31. Rupert, T.J., Gianola, D.S., Gan, Y., Hemker, K.J.: Experimental observations of stress-driven grain boundary migration.\par
    Science 326, 1686\u8211?1690 (2009)\par
780                                                                                                                Y. Piao, K. C. Le\par
\par
\par
32. Bilby, B.A.: Types of dislocation source. In: Report of Bristol conference on defects in crystalline solids, pp. 124\u8211?133. The\par
    Physical Soc, Bristol 1954, London (1955)\par
33. Kr\u246?ner, E.: Der fundamentale Zusammenhang zwischen Versetzungsdichte und Spannungsfunktionen. Z. Phys. 142, 463\u8211?475\par
    (1955)\par
34. Nye, J.F.: Some geometrical relations in dislocated crystals. Acta Metall. 1, 153\u8211?162 (1953)\par
35. Langer, J.S.: Thermal effects in dislocation theory. Phys. Rev. E 94, 063004 (2016)\par
36. Le, K.C., Piao, Y.: Thermal softening during high-temperature torsional deformation of aluminum bars. Int. J. Eng. Sci. 137,\par
    1\u8211?7 (2019)\par
37. Le, K.C., Tran, T.M., Langer, J.S.: Thermodynamic dislocation theory of of high-temperature deformation in aluminum and\par
    steel. Phys. Rev. E 96, 013004 (2017)\par
38. Le, K.C., Tran, T.M., Langer, J.S.: Thermodynamic dislocation theory of adiabatic shear banding in steel. Scripta Mater.\par
    149, 62\u8211?65 (2018)\par
39. Chowdhury, S.R., Roy, D., Reddy, J.N., Srinivasa, A.: Fluctuation relation based continuum model for thermoviscoplasticity\par
    in metals. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 96, 353\u8211?368 (2016)\par
40. Berdichevsky, V.L.: On thermodynamics of crystal plasticity. Scripta Mater. 54, 711\u8211?716 (2006b)\par
41. Groma, I., Csikor, F.F., Zaiser, M.: Spatial correlations and higher-order gradient terms in a continuum description of\par
    dislocation dynamics. Acta Mater. 51, 1271\u8211?1281 (2003)\par
42. Le, K.C., Le, T.H., Tran, T.M.: Averaging in dislocation mediated plasticity. Int. J. Eng. Sci. 149, 103230 (2020)\par
43. Le, K.C., Sembiring, P., Tran, T.N.: Continuum dislocation theory accounting for redundant dislocations and Taylor hardening.\par
    Int. J. Eng. Sci. 106, 155\u8211?167 (2016)\par
44. Langer, J.S.: Thermodynamic theory of dislocation-enabled plasticity. Phys. Rev. E 96, 053005 (2017)\par
45. Burgers, J.M.: Some considerations on the fields of stress connected with dislocations in a regular crystal lattice I. Proc. Kon.\par
    Ned. Akad. Wet. 42, 293 (1939)\par
46. Read, W.T., Shockley, W.: Dislocation models of crystal grain boundaries. Phys. Rev. 78, 275\u8211?289 (1950)\par
47. Vitek, V.: On the difference between the misorientation dependences of the energies of tilt and twist boundaries. Scripta\par
    Metall. 21, 711\u8211?714 (1987)\par
48. Le, K.C.: Thermodynamic dislocation theory: finite deformations. Int. J. Eng. Sci. 139, 1\u8211?10 (2019)\par
49. Abeyaratne, R., Knowles, J.K.: On the driving traction acting on a surface of strain discontinuity in a continuum. J. Mech.\par
    Phys. Solids 38, 345\u8211?360 (1990)\par
\par
Publisher\u8217?s Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional\par
affiliations.\par

}